The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Tallants of Barton, vol 1 (of 3),
by Joseph Hatton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Tallants of Barton, vol 1 (of 3)
       A tale of fortune and finance

Author: Joseph Hatton

Release Date: May 2, 2023 [eBook #70686]

Language: English

Produced by: Sonya Schermann, Debrah Thompson and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TALLANTS OF BARTON, VOL 1
(OF 3) ***





                        THE TALLANTS OF BARTON.

                    A Tale of Fortune and Finance.

                                  BY

                            JOSEPH HATTON,

    Author of “Bitter Sweets: a Love Story;” “Against the Stream,”
                              etc., etc.

 “The wheel of Fortune turns incessantly round, and who can say within
         himself, I shall to-day be uppermost?”--_Confucius._


                           IN THREE VOLUMES.

                                VOL. I.


                                LONDON:
             TINSLEY BROTHERS, 18, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.
                                 1867.
               [_The Right of Translation is reserved._]


                                LONDON:
           BRADBURY, EVANS, AND CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.




CONTENTS.

    CHAP.                                                           PAGE

      I.--IN THE SHADOW OF BERNE HILLS                                 1

     II.--INTRODUCES THE READER TO THE MERCHANT’S
            SON AND DAUGHTER                                          13

    III.--BRINGS US TO THE HALL FARM, WHERE THE
            READER MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OF THE
            SOMERTONS AND A CERTAIN LANDSCAPE
            PAINTER                                                   22

     IV.--THE METER IRON WORKS COMPANY                                36

      V.--THE DIBBLES AND THEIR NEW LODGER                            49

     VI.--THE TWO FRIENDS AND THE TWO VIGNETTES                       61

    VII.--IS A SENTIMENTAL CHAPTER, CONTAINING A
            FEW MORAL REFLECTIONS BY THE WAY                          77

   VIII.--IN WHICH PAUL SOMERTON ENTERS UPON A
            DELICATE, DIFFICULT, AND DANGEROUS TASK                   84

     IX.--WHICH INTRODUCES THE READER TO THE
            SUMMER-HOUSE ON BERNE HILLS, AND ILLUSTRATES
            THE TRUTH OF AN OLD PROVERB
            ABOUT EAVES-DROPPERS                                      95

      X.--MR. RICHARD TALLANT INTERRUPTS A CHARMING
            TÊTE-À-TÊTE                                              107

     XI.--ANOTHER UNEXPECTED VISITOR APPEARS AT
            BARTON HALL                                              119

    XII.--BENEATH THE GOWN                                           132

   XIII.--DESCRIBES A GREAT FINANCIAL STORM AND EXHIBITS
            THOMAS DIBBLE IN A NEW CHARACTER                         143

    XIV.--ARTHUR PHILLIPS AT WORK                                    155

     XV.--RETURNS TO AVONWORTH VALLEY, AND GLANCES
            AT MRS. SOMERTON’S SECRET                                169

    XVI.--MAY BE SAID TO INAUGURATE A SERIES OF IMPORTANT
            CHANGES IN THE LIVES OF SEVERAL
            NOTABLE PERSONS IN THIS HISTORY                          179

   XVII.--CHIEFLY CONCERNS THE FORTUNES OF PAUL
            SOMERTON                                                 190

  XVIII.--RETURNS TO THE MEETING AT THE LONDON
            TAVERN                                                   199

    XIX.--OF CERTAIN REPORTS IN THE NEWSPAPERS                       210

     XX.--SHOWS HOW THE PURSE FOUND ITS WAY INTO
            PAUL SOMERTON’S BOX                                      224

    XXI.--WHEREIN THOMAS DIBBLE “RUNS AWAY,” AND
            MEETS WITH A VERY REMARKABLE COMPANION                   236

   XXII.--IN WHICH THOMAS DIBBLE CONTINUES TO “RUN
            AWAY”                                                    246

  XXIII.--IS OF A MISCELLANEOUS AND DISCURSIVE CHARACTER,
            BUT ESSENTIAL TO THE NARRATIVE                           261

   XXIV.--CHRISTABEL TAKES DIBBLE INTO HER CONFIDENCE                278




                              CHAPTER I.

                     IN THE SHADOW OF BERNE HILLS.


Barton Hall is a conspicuous feature of the landscape in the smiling
Vale of Avonworth, and it stands beneath the shadow of Berne Hills.
Built of white stone, and in the Italian style of architecture, it
has the appearance of a modern mansion removed from Kensington Palace
Gardens, and planted amongst the rare scenery of this beautiful western
district of the Midlands.

All that wealth and taste can do to make the house generally worthy of
the site has been lavished upon it, inside and out. It is furnished
with everything that is costly and comfortable, with ornaments and
articles of _vertu_ from all parts of the earth.

A long gravelly drive leads up to the principal entrance, which is cut
off from the park with iron fencing and chains. On the other side of
the house there are conservatories of flowers and extensive gardens.
Behind, at a short distance, there is stabling for many horses, shut
out from view by shrubs and young trees.

In front of the house a smooth tract of mossy lawn ends in a sunk
fence; and beyond lies the park, skirted by green fields, which mount
up the Berne Hills and lose themselves in the foliage of oaks, and
elms, and larches.

Here and there on the lawn are clumps of young aspiring cedars, silver
birch trees, ash plants, and sycamores, hemmed round about with rims
of white creepers and luxuriant mosses. In “Gems of the Poets,”
pictorially adorned by Laydon, you will find a fanciful illustration of
Gray’s well-known lines:

  “Full many a gem of purest ray serene
  The dark, unfathom’d caves of ocean bear.”

In the foreground there is a leafy vignette of exotic and other plants
and trees sprouting up from an island-rock. Turn the water into grass,
and replace the tall cocoa-nut trees with a couple of silver birches,
and you have one of the Barton Hall lawn groups; for the place is so
completely “shut out from the rude world” and the easterly and northern
winds, that the climate is more like southern France than western
England, and vegetation flourishes there nearly all the year round.

Close by the principal lodge-entrance to the park lies a clear deep
lake, fed by a stream from the Berne Hills, and the rendezvous of
innumerable wild and tame water-fowl.

Few places in broad England can compare with this modern house and
grounds. The sunsets are more beautiful here than anywhere else in all
this western land. The twilights are full of yellows, and delicate
neutral tints, and shifting lights. And the mists that float about
those Berne Hills, like angel shadows! and the gentle rains that follow
them, filling the air with a thousand mixed perfumes, and brightening
the greens and browns in the landscape,--they might make an artist
frantic with delight.

In rain or sunshine, in winter or summer, Barton Hall, beneath the
shadow of Berne Hills, is always beautiful. In evening sunsets, with
the red light on its great flashing windows, and a tinge of gold on the
vane of its Italian tower, you might take it for the romantic retreat
of a southern king rather than the home of a merchant prince of Old
England.

Christopher Tallant was to all intents and purposes a self-made man.
He had begun life in a humble capacity in the counting-house of some
great works in the north of England, where so many men of position and
influence have made their way upwards from minor posts.

They look more at a boy’s talents than at his friends in those busy
hives of industry northwards. No matter how highly a young fellow
may be connected, he has no position without ability in these busy
districts.

A rare practical race, these said northerners--a race to be brought up
amongst, studied for example’s sake. As a class they do not possess the
refinements of manner and speech of the southern races of England, and
they do not count so much upon etiquette. They are rough like their
north-east winds, but genial as their own firesides.

Their rivers are black with coal washings, and the banks thereof are
crowded with great works, from which blazing furnaces, and forges,
and flashes of sudden flame, cast ruddy reflections upon the sullen
tide. Their fields are covered with pit-heaps, and iron works, and
lime-kilns, and blasting cupolas. But here and there, in out-of-the-way
places, you come upon romantic woods, and running streams, and rocky
glens.

A wonderful land the north countrie, the seat of great enterprises, and
the home of strong-limbed, strong-willed, clear-headed men; one would
rather some of them had softer manners, but for our country’s good
we can afford to sacrifice that if only in deference to their active
brains and their inborn love of enterprise.

It was in the north, we say, where Mr. Christopher Tallant began life,
and where the key-note of his career may be said to have been struck;
but as a young man he had lived in the south-west of England, and
had mastered the leading principles of trade and commerce in several
great private and public works. He had proved himself an adept at
legislative finance, at devising and carrying out great schemes; and
at a comparatively early age he had raised himself to a position of
commercial distinction and opulence.

He had been twice married. His first union was an unhappy one. It was
altogether a mysterious marriage, which had puzzled and astonished his
friends at the time, as well it might; for without the smallest warning
the young fellow had returned from a short visit to London with a
handsome, dashing woman, whom he introduced as his wife. At this time
he was manager of the Vulcan Forge Works on the Avon, twenty miles on
the other side of a famous western city, and he had the _entrée_ to
very respectable society.

It was some time before the little local coterie forgave his sudden
introduction of the unknown London wife. In a very short time he had
reason to repent his rashness and folly. His wife indulged in all kinds
of extravagance; she led the local fashions, she indulged in fast
flirtations which set all the gossips in the neighbourhood upon her;
finally, an unwomanly passion for drink set in, and after a few years
of wretchedness she died, leaving behind her one child, a son, who will
make a prominent figure in this history.

The poor woman’s misconduct had but little impeded her husband’s
worldly advances; he secured shares in several important patents;
he became director of one or two companies; and started as an iron
merchant on his own private account. At one time he held as his own
property half the iron bars of a whole district. This was during a
strike, after a period of great depression, and just before a time of
sudden and unexpected activity.

Well, by-and-by, in the course of half-a-dozen years, the iron merchant
married again, and took his wife home to that beautiful country
residence near Severntown, and beneath the shadow of Berne Hills. He
had only purchased the estate the year before his marriage.

His second wife, whom he had loved with a fervency characteristic
of his earnest character, was the daughter of a nobleman, and an
exceedingly handsome and lovable woman.

She died in giving birth to her first child, who, like her
half-brother, is one of the leading characters in this story.

The death of his second wife had been a great affliction to Christopher
Tallant. It was many months before he could bring himself even to look
at his child. Travel and change of scene, lapse of time, increased
ardour in business occupations, and new hopes, at length softened down
his great sorrow, and enabled him to take his place in the great world
calmly, and as became a man of his station and influence. His new hopes
centred round his only son, who was a lad about eight years old when
the merchant’s greatest trouble came upon him.

The boy exhibited considerable native talent. He was a smart,
well-looking, promising fellow, full of life and spirits and courage.
Before he was ten years old his father clung to him like a forlorn
hope, and centred in him schemes of future power and greatness. The
name of Tallant had of late years become famous in the world of trade
and money, and the name should be perpetuated in this son with honour
and distinction. This was the happiness which, it seemed to the
merchant, Fate had decreed he should have at last.

Such, briefly, is the outline of Mr. Tallant’s history. We introduce
him to our readers some two and twenty years after the death of his
second wife,--a man over fifty years of age. At the time when we make
his acquaintance he is Chairman of the great Meter Iron Works Company,
a director of two of the principal railway companies, and a shareholder
in many extensive city schemes.

Once a week he was to be found at the London offices of the Meter Works
at Westminster, and he usually returned from London the same day. You
could not have mistaken him for anything but a shrewd, conscientious
man of business if you had known him. He was above the middle height,
and usually wore a black shooting-coat, fitting the body tightly, and
with pockets at the side; shepherd’s plaid trowsers, and a black velvet
waistcoat. His hair was grey, and his face cleanly shaven. He had a
quick, discerning eye, and withal a genial expression of countenance;
for, though he had not forgotten the past, Time had been good to him,
as it is good to other sufferers who have lost dear ones from their
homes, and had comforted him with the affection of his children. He
bore an excellent character for kindness, integrity, and honour; but he
was known at the same time to be a man of unbending pride.

He was proud of his name, of his wealth, of his son, of his house,
of his grounds, of his farms, of his estates; proud of everything.
And to a certain extent it was a laudable pride, for his riches were
the result of his own ability and industry. He felt, with a certain
acknowledgment of the bounty of Providence, that he had made them
all himself. He might have thanked God a little more for his worldly
success and been none the less happy, and certainly more grateful; but
it was his pride that he had worked his way up, from the lowest rung of
the ladder, and that he stood on the top of it with safety.

Everything he had was better than anything anybody else had; he would
have it so, and yet he was a kindly, courteous sort of man, whom you
might have had pleasure in visiting. His pride of wealth would crop up
now and then; but his wines were superb, his _cuisine_ everything that
could be desired, the views from his windows magnificent, his pictures
modern and by the best moderns, his books modern and in glorious
bindings, and his daughter--there was nothing more sweet to look upon
in all the Avonworth valley, or beneath the Berne Hill shades, than the
merchant’s only daughter.




                              CHAPTER II.

                INTRODUCES THE READER TO THE MERCHANT’S
                           SON AND DAUGHTER.


Do you know Dicksee’s picture of “Miranda?” It was exhibited at the
Royal Academy a few years ago. There are copies of it in the Strand and
Regent Street picture-shops.

It is a fair, sweet, _spirituel_ face, full of inquiring love and
innocence--a frank, open face, set off with a heavy wealth of bright
brown hair--a sunny face, with red, parted lips, and all the pure soul
of woman in the deep blue eyes.

When first we saw that picture, we could not, “for the life of us,”
think where we had seen the earthly model of it. It haunted us for
days; we dreamt about it; we bought the best copy we could procure; and
at length, with the picture lying beside us, carefully packed, on the
seat of a Great Western Railway carriage, a London purchase for our
country library, we remembered Phœbe Tallant.

It hangs before us whilst we write, with all the story of the life of
her whom it so much resembles mapped out in our mind.

Perhaps Phœbe Tallant was not quite so pretty as Mr. Dicksee’s picture,
but she was as near an approach to it as one is likely to meet with
once in a dozen years.

Occasional visitors at Barton Hall from London were in raptures with
the bright, fair girl; and one or two young fellows had gone home
desperately in love with her; but none of them dared hardly to think of
their love in presence of Mr. Tallant: not that the merchant said much
about Phœbe, not that she seemed to be on such affectionate terms with
him as might have been expected; but he was proud of her beauty, proud
of her accomplishments. And, moreover, it was shrewdly anticipated
that Miss Tallant would not have anything like the dowry which the
daughter of so wealthy a father ought to have; for the merchant was all
engrossed in his heir.

Richard Tallant, who was destined by the old man for such a store of
riches, was a dark, dashing young fellow, of five or six and twenty,
when we first make his acquaintance--some half-a-dozen years older than
his half-sister Phœbe.

He had been an Eton boy, had graduated at Oxford, and travelled through
Europe and Asia.

He had already spent enough money recklessly, foolishly, ay, and
wickedly, to have produced an annuity of at least a thousand a year. He
was professedly one of the managing directors of the Meter Works, and
resided in London to take the metropolitan and continental business of
the company.

When his father complained of his enormous expenditure (which was very
seldom, by the way), Richard Tallant alluded to his position in the
world, his education, and his habits.

At Oxford he had been a don, not of learning, but of fashion; kept
his hunters and his mail phaeton, and made many a scion of the old
aristocracy envy the mushroom son of iron and railway debentures.

“You have given me every indulgence; you have bred me up in the hot-bed
of luxury; I am just fresh from a European tour, where I travelled like
a prince, to finish my college education, and now you expect me to
pull in,” Richard would say, sitting astride one of the heavy mahogany
chairs in the Westminster managerial room, and looking over the back of
it at his father.

“I should not care, Dick, if you would only do the work of your office,
as well as draw the salary,” Mr. Tallant would remark.

“Come, now, my dear governor, have you not told me you have enough
invested to enable me to live like a prince all my life?”

“I may have been weak enough to say so; but I calculated upon your
doing something towards keeping the money coming in.”

“You didn’t want me, you said, to be waiting, like some heirs, for
your death, and then reckoning upon living in style; you would rather
I had my fill of life, and see me enjoy it in your own days. Come
now, father, you know you have said so,” said Richard, twirling his
moustache, and tapping his patent-leather boot with a riding-whip.

“I fear I had not my usual foresight about me when I did say so,” said
Mr. Tallant.

And he said truly; but having risen by hard work himself, and sprung
from a comparatively humble position, Mr. Tallant was one of those men
who like to see their children in the other extreme, and who, never
having been within the pale of college and aristocratic life, believe,
and truly, that, to be a leader therein, a merchant’s son must let his
money fly freely, and like a prince indeed.

He had given his son a free rein. When first Richard went to Oxford, he
had been snubbed by a young lord, and an epigram had been levelled at
him, the point of which turned upon his name and origin; he was called
the produce of fifty talents of silver invested in iron.

When Richard told his father this, the great merchant snapped his
fingers, and said he could buy up all the Oxford lords in a heap,
and, turning cleverly round upon their lordships, in reply to the
epigrammatic hit at his son’s origin, he said,

“Never mind them, Dick; there’s as good blood in your veins as there is
in any of theirs; it may not come from a swell who plundered the Saxons
at the time of the Norman Conquest, or mixed in the vices of licentious
courts; there is no dishonour in it, and it has to be proved yet
whether to spring from merchant princes of England is not the highest
of all descent.”

“Bravo,” said Mr. Richard Tallant; “why, father, you speak like an
orator. That hit about the merchant princes would drive half-a-dozen
hustings mad.”

Mr. Tallant had warmed up, and was angry; he paid no attention to his
son’s comment; he only saw before him some “stuck up” aristocrat
sneering at his name and origin.

“Look here, Dick,” he continued, producing a blank cheque, “fill that
up in the presence of these aristocratic snobs, and show them what the
Tallants can do.”

This was surely putting too much of power and revenge into the hands
of a young man naturally frivolous and overbearing, and it no doubt
influenced, in a great measure, his future career.

One would have given Mr. Christopher Tallant credit for more real
worldly wisdom than this; he could, perhaps, have borne “the proud
man’s contumely” himself; he might have shrugged his shoulders, and
sneered at it, with a consoling thought about his wealth; he might
have said to himself, “Ah, never mind, I could buy you up, stick and
stone” (for he was weak, you see, on this point); but he would not have
protested and been demonstrative: contempt would have been his answer,
and, in the midst of his commercial cares, he would have speedily
forgotten the inane taunt. To have his son treated with indifference,
to see him taunted with his origin, by men who had nothing but their
ancestors to boast about; this was a different thing altogether, and he
chafed at it, and was angry indeed.

His pride was shocked. The feeling that he could buy everything was
shaken. He was not accustomed to crosses, except such as his wealth or
his energy could overcome; and his sense of injured honour, too, was
touched.

“I would not have you do anything that is mean, Dick; there is nothing
mean in being generous and open-handed; and there are two powers, it
appears, at Oxford,--money and blood; don’t be afraid to hold your own;
you have no reason to be ashamed of your birth, and you can make them
ashamed of their poverty, the sneaks! Don’t spare them one jot, Dick;
punish them, and show them what talents of silver invested in iron can
do--the miserable sneaks!”

Thus all the merchant’s practical wisdom and his just pride were thrown
to the winds; but he is not the only man of his class who, chafing at
the arrogance of “gentle blood,” has sought revenge on Society at the
shrine of Mammon, and obtained nothing in return but “a crown of golden
sorrow.”




                             CHAPTER III.

                 BRINGS US TO THE HALL FARM, WHERE THE
                   READER MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OF
                 THE SOMERTONS AND A CERTAIN LANDSCAPE
                               PAINTER.


It lay on the western border of the park, and comprised about eight
hundred acres of arable and pasture land.

The buildings were red brick, with white dressed corner stones and
facings. There were model cow-houses, cattle-sheds, piggeries, barns,
corn-lofts, and poultry pens, that would have satisfied even Mr.
Mechi’s critical eye. An agricultural writer of considerable repute
had, in truth, written an essay upon these model buildings, and it had
been printed in an important agricultural and scientific review; for
there were no better arranged buildings in the country.

Mr. Tallant, you know, would have the best of everything, and his
bailiff encouraged him in having all the best things at his farm. There
were carts from Crosskill, ploughs from Ransomes, threshing-machines
from Clayton and Shuttleworth, reapers from America, clod-crushers,
drills, rakes, hoes, harrows, and other implements from Banbury,
Lincoln, Beverley, Worcester, Yorkshire, and Bristol.

Mr. Tallant had built these model farm-buildings himself. The Hall Farm
had been an especial feature of the estate when he purchased it, but
the buildings did not come up to his notions, and the result is before
us.

Mr. Tallant brought all his commercial experience to bear upon the
cultivation and management of the land. His bailiff, Mr. Luke Somerton,
had been a Lincolnshire lord’s right hand in the management of a great
farm on the Wolds, and he was the very man of all others to enter into
Mr. Tallant’s idea of looking upon a farm in the same light as he would
a manufactory.

The merchant maintained that good land would, in a very few years,
amply repay a man for all he put into it; and Mr. Somerton was a
thoroughgoing disciple of high cultivation. He had studied agricultural
chemistry under a professor, and Mr. Tallant often said it was quite
a treat to chat with him about Liebig’s theories, the value of
agricultural statistics, tenant right, and leases. Richard Tallant did
not agree with his father, and thought Luke Somerton’s talk a good deal
of it “rot:” not that the bailiff cared for Mr. Richard’s opinion, or
feared his father’s.

Luke Somerton was quite a gentleman in his way. He was a younger son
of a Lincolnshire squire, and had been brought up to agriculture as a
profession. He came to the Barton Hall Farm with Mr. Tallant, and he
was likely to remain there as long as Mr. Tallant lived; for he was not
only a scientific farmer, but he farmed profitably, and Mr. Tallant
said that was what few amateur gentlemen farmers could say for their
bailiffs in that district.

The farm-house was a substantial, handsome residence, surrounded with
a prettily laid out garden, with shrubs and trees all scrupulously
dwarfed and pruned. Hard by, and adjacent to the farm-buildings, was
the stack-yard, and beyond were fields, mostly grass, with low fences
and white gates.

Mr. Somerton was married, and had three children,--two sons and a
daughter. His firstborn had left home when he was fifteen as an
apprentice on board a merchant ship, which sailed from London for
Bombay. The vessel had been spoken once, and had never been heard of
afterwards; so Frank had long been mourned as lost, and there remained
the bailiff, his daughter Amy, a girl about the age of Miss Tallant,
and a son, Paul, three years younger.

Luke Somerton’s married life had not been a happy one. His wife
had accepted his hand mainly out of spite, after she had angled
unsuccessfully for his eldest brother. She was a proud disappointed
woman; but a good housewife nevertheless, and Luke, by dint of
perseverance, had successfully combated her overbearing disposition; so
that though they could not be said to live happily and affectionately,
as man and wife should do, they never had noisy open brawls and
quarrels, as some couples have. If they sneered at each other and
maintained opposite opinions on almost any given subject, they very
rarely had loud disputes, and never passed a day without speaking to
each other. They were opposed on principle; but Mrs. Somerton always
managed to conclude her bickerings with something like overtures of
reconciliation, which Luke accepted for what they were worth, and
“tided over with,” until the next fencing bout came on.

Mrs. Somerton had been a handsome woman--a blonde--and might have
continued handsome had she cultivated kindness of heart as well as
her husband cultivated wheat. Hers was a nice face spoiled by a nasty
temper. She was a fine woman, above the middle height, and there
were little streaks of red upon her cheeks such as you see on the
sunny side of a winter apple. There were lines about her mouth which
disappointment and pride had placed there, during eighteen years
of sourness and vexation of spirit. She was well mated so far as
appearances went.

Her husband looked a thorough son of the soil, a tall, well-built,
florid, intelligent, business-like Lincolnshire farmer, such as you
will meet in the capacity of judge at country agricultural shows.

Their son Paul was at a boarding-school, and when this story begins,
just about commencing life as a clerk in Mr. Tallant’s London offices.

His sister Amy was at home, and spent half her time at the Hall with
Miss Tallant, who treated her very much as a sister.

Amy was not at all like the picture of Miranda. She was several shades
darker than Miss Tallant, and neither a brunette nor a blonde; but
she had a large black piercing eye, which looked at you from beneath
gracefully-arched eyebrows. She was not so round as Phœbe; but her
figure was supple, and well defined. Her mouth and chin were full of
graceful curves, and her hair was bound closely to her head, setting
off a pair of small white ears that gave a high character to the face.
She was a well-bred, high-spirited girl, and accomplished too; for she
had not only been fairly educated at her father’s expense, but she had
had the benefit of much of the tuition which Miss Tallant had received,
not only from a clever resident governess but from professors who came
at intervals to Barton Hall.

Amongst the latter was one Mr. Arthur Phillips, who taught Miss Tallant
drawing, and as he will figure rather prominently in this romance,
we will introduce him at once, and tell you what he was like and all
about him. He was a rising young artist who resided in the county town,
though he might have made a successful position in London.

“I wonder you don’t go to town,” many persons would say to him; and his
reply would be in effect,

“Why should I? I don’t care for London, and I like the country. I
can go to town whenever I think proper, and the dealers will buy my
pictures whether I go or not. What I get for them, and the few pupils I
have in the county, give me enough for all my requirements, and enable
me to study quietly and leisurely.”

But there was another reason why Arthur Phillips preferred the country,
and that was a reason, which you may guess, for constant visits to the
vale of Berne, beyond his desire to study the foliage of the district,
and the lights and shadows of the Berne Hills, and the beautiful skies
above.

It is true that many of his best sketches were transcriptions of the
varied bits of landscape in this district; and he said he had never
thoroughly understood Cuyp, Both and Ruysdael, Salvator Rosa, Wilson
and Gainsborough, until he knew Berne valley in storm and sunshine, in
spring and summer. He was never tired of painting Berne trees and Berne
mosses, and the dealers bought these little sketchy bits almost as
readily as they would now buy similar things by Birket Foster.

Mr. Phillips was an earnest lover of art; if he had not been a painter
he would have been a poet. There was poetry in all his works, the true
poetry of nature; and he was as well up in the principles and beauties
of poetry as he was in chiaroscuro and perspective.

Nature had given him a mind worthy of the most perfect exterior, but
she had denied him many of those charms of person which mostly delight
the eye and captivate the heart of woman. He was under the ordinary
height, a thin figure, with long black hair, and dark eyes set deeply
in a face notable for sharply cut features. The expression was that of
a thinker, and his manner nervous and retiring.

Mrs. Somerton had a great objection to Mr. Phillips.

“I don’t think his continually lurking about here bodes any good to
those girls,” she said to her husband, over tea, as Mr. Phillips passed
by with his sketch book under his arm.

“Nonsense,” said Mr. Somerton, laughing. “You don’t think either of
the girls will fall in love with an undersized whipper-snapper like Mr.
Phillips?”

“There’s no knowing what poor silly women will fall in love with,” said
Mrs. Somerton, with a sneer.

“No, nor men either, for the matter of that, dame, if you want to argue
the point,” Luke replied, defiantly.

Mrs. Somerton, thus challenged, declined to pick up the gauntlet which
she had so often before accepted. She was bent upon talking about Mr.
Arthur Phillips.

“I don’t think Amy would be fool enough to be led away by his poetry
and pictures, and fine speeches and things; but Miss Tallant’s
soft enough for anything, and I wonder Mr. Tallant has that fellow
continually about the place.”

“God bless us!” said Mr. Somerton, his honest face lighting up with a
genial smile of amusement; “why, do you think Miss Tallant, with her
beautiful face, and her equally beautiful dowry, is going to throw
herself away upon poor little Phillips?”

“Why not? He writes poetry, and paints all sorts of nonsense, and talks
like lackadaisical lovers talk in books; and I’m sure that’s the sort
of thing that Miss Tallant’s flashy education has taught her to admire.
Why didn’t her father let her go into London society? Why doesn’t she
go to town for the season, and be a reigning beauty, as she might be?
That’s the sort of education she should have had, and then she might
have married a duke,” Mrs. Somerton said, with warmth.

“Why, you’re quite excited about it,” said Mr. Somerton; “I’ve not seen
your eyes sparkle so since I don’t know when.”

“I hate to see such namby-pambyism,” went on Mrs. Somerton. “When a
girl’s got a pretty face, a graceful manner, and plenty of money, she
ought to take her place and marry a gentleman, not be buried alive in
a stucco palace, with a half-gentleman, half-farmer, half-ironfounder
father, a sneaking governess, and an ugly, romantic little painter.”

“Well, well, wife, it is no business of ours, and if it was, I don’t
think there’s any foundation for alarm. Besides, your ambition ought
to be satisfied if young Hammerton, as you say pays more delicate
attentions to Amy than he does to Miss Tallant. But Master Hammerton
must mind his eye; I’d break every bone in his body if he offered an
insult to Amy.”

“Young Hammerton!” said Mrs. Somerton, with an affected sneer. “Do you
think I’m vain and silly enough to think the daughter of a farm-bailiff
has any chance of catching the next heir to an earldom, for her
husband?”

“A farm-bailiff! Why such emphasis on farm-bailiff, Mistress Somerton?
There may be as good blood in the veins of a farm-bailiff as there is
in a Hammerton.”

Mrs. Somerton’s lip curled with a pitying, patronising expression, that
put her husband into a towering passion; a most unusual circumstance.

“Damn it!” he exclaimed, rising from his seat, “a Somerton is as
independent a man any day; there was never one of the race that didn’t
always pay twenty shillings in the pound, and but wouldn’t fell a lord
if he spoke a light word of any of their women: and, by heaven, I
consider myself as good a man as any Hammerton, dead or living.”

“There, there, Luke; now don’t get into a passion,” said Mrs. Somerton,
trying to speak soothingly, and like an injured woman, who had not
given the slightest cause for passion to anybody in all her life.

“What’s the meaning of all this, Sarah? There’s something at the bottom
of it.”

“Only a friendly gossip between man and wife; but that’s such a novelty
in this house, is it not?”

“I have had enough experience to tell me that a friendly gossip like
this is not meant for nothing, Sarah,” said Luke, thrusting his hands
into his pockets, and pacing about the room.

Whether there was anything “at the bottom of it,” or not, did not
further transpire at that moment, by reason of the Hon. Lionel
Hammerton himself dismounting from his horse at the gate beyond the
garden, and walking up to Mr. Somerton’s door.




                              CHAPTER IV.

                     THE METER IRON WORKS COMPANY.


The offices of Mr. Tallant and the Meter Works were at Westminster, in
a magnificent newly erected block of buildings not far from the Houses
of Parliament. They comprised the whole suite of apartments on the
ground-floor, with a board-room above.

On the heavy swinging mahogany doors at the entrance were two thick
brass plates, on one of which was engraven “Meter Iron Works Company,”
and on the other “Christopher Tallant.”

The establishment was fitted up in the best possible style, with
mahogany desks; the counting-house was very much like a bank, the whole
of the monetary business of the great company, as well as that of Mr.
Tallant, being conducted in town. Behind the counting-house was Mr.
Christopher Tallant’s room, and that of his son Richard.

Mr. Tallant’s room was plainly but well furnished, and was only
occupied once a week; but Mr. Richard’s room was fitted up in the
highest style of office magnificence, like a gentleman’s library.
There was a thick velvet-pile carpet upon the floor, a massive carved
mahogany table in the centre of the room; several ponderous chairs with
morocco seats; a quaint arm-chair stood before a writing-pad near the
table. Where there were no book-shelves there were pictures of engines,
and iron bridges, and curious girders, and wheels, in ponderous frames;
and thick cloth curtains draped the two windows which looked into the
street.

The offices were famous amongst men in the iron trade, and once or
twice Mr. Tallant began to think they were getting a name politically;
for several deputations had waited upon him there soliciting him to
come forward for various boroughs at general elections.

But Mr. Christopher Tallant always said his ambition did not lie that
way. Some day perhaps his son Dick might like to go into the House, and
if he did, why go he should of course; but there was plenty of time
to think about that; and so the deputations retired, wishing, in most
cases, that there were not plenty of time to think about that, for
there was gold indeed at the back of Christopher Tallant.

“By gad, you amuse me,” said Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, a college
acquaintance of Mr. Richard Tallant’s, looking at the pictorial
treasures of the room through an eye-glass. “To think of your going in
for engines and machines, with idiotic cranks, and all that sort of
thing. ’Pon my soul, it’s too funny.”

And Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs turned round, showed Mr. Richard Tallant his
teeth, and said “haw, haw.” That was the way Mr. Gibbs laughed: that
was how he laughed at Oxford, when a broken-hearted girl appealed to
his sense of honour; that was how he laughed when he won two thousand
pounds at Loo from a college friend, who said he was ruined, and
threatened to throw himself into the Isis; that was how he laughed
under all circumstances.

“One must put a sign of some sort up,” said Mr. Richard Tallant,
twirling his moustache, and stretching his legs under the big library
table. “What will you take, Shuff?”

“Anything you intend taking yourself, old boy; you are a pretty good
judge; I’ll trust to your sense of what a fellow’s morning draught
should be,” said Mr. Gibbs, grinning again, and saying “haw, haw” as
before.

Mr. Tallant, junior, struck a gong upon the table, and a sober-looking
old man in a dark livery obeyed the summons.

“Sherry, Thomas,” said Mr. Richard.

Thomas taking up a bunch of keys from the table, unlocked a cupboard by
the fireplace, and carefully uncorked a dusty, black looking bottle,
and set it before Mr. Tallant’s only son, with a couple of richly cut
glasses.

Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs took a seat by the window, commended the wine as
he drank it, and criticised any woman who chanced to pass on the other
side of the street. He was not a beauty himself that he should be so
critical of the looks of others. He had weak eyes, and shaky legs, a
short cough, and a narrow chest. His enemies said he wore stays, and
slept in gloves, to improve his figure and whiten his hands, which were
naturally red, like his face, that was powdered after the manner of
women. He was a man of fashion nevertheless, and had sprung of a noble
stock; but the race flickered its last in him, and the estates had been
divided by Jews in his grandfather’s time.

It was considered a daring thing to be hand and glove with Gibbs at
Oxford, a dangerous and a delightful thing; for he was known to be
the fastest man of his college, and he had been the ring-leader in
everything wicked for years. He made himself Mr. Tallant’s champion
when that gentleman was epigrammatically assailed, and ever afterwards
constituted himself boon companion to the iron prince.

There was a rumour that Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs was compelled to leave
college when he did on account of some offence committed against the
regulations of the establishment; whether this was true or not, he
left Oxford suddenly, and with no other honour than that of being the
fastest man who had ever led a gown and town row, or hunted down a
citizen’s daughter.

“You’ll be at the club to-night, of course,” Mr. Gibbs said, swinging
his eye-glass round, and admiring the perfect fit of a pair of new
boots.

“Yes,” said Mr. Richard, “shan’t be able to come before dinner; going
to dine with a friend at seven.”

Mr. Gibbs showed his teeth, and said “haw, haw.”

“Will join you by ten,” Mr. Richard continued, smiling, and holding
his empty glass between himself and the light to catch its diamond-like
sparkles in the sun.

“What’s _your_ little game to-night, then,” inquired Mr. Tallant,
junior.

“Nothing, nothing; a bit of quiet Loo and a cigar. Young Hammerton is
to join us by-and-by.”

“What, Earl Verner’s brother?” Mr. Richard inquired, with more than
ordinary interest.

“The same--the paternal seat is near Barton Hall, you know.”

“Rather,” said Mr. Richard. “He’ll be deuced rich when the earl hops
the twig; he is considerably older than Lionel and very shaky, they
say; he often rides over to the Berne district. The governor says he
likes to talk farming to the bailiff at the Hall Farm.”

“Gad bless me!” exclaimed Mr. Gibbs. “Are there any gals about?”

“There is one, old fellow, and a remarkably fine girl, too; but her
mother’s a she-wolf, and her father!--why, Shuffy, he’d double you
up with one hand and throw you into the road, if you put your nose
into his place; he’d smell you out in no time;” and Mr. Richard
Tallant laughed aloud at his lively picture of Mr. Gibbs’s imaginary
discomfiture.

Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs bit his lip before he grinned and said “haw, haw”
this time; and it was a little while before he had time to say, “Haw,
what an infernally powerful savage he must be.”

Mr. Richard Tallant was, and had been for some time, of great
pecuniary value to Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, who not only sponged upon
the iron prince, but fleeced him at cards, and assisted at all his
extravagances. Had it been otherwise, he would have resented the tone
and manner of Mr. Tallant’s description of his perfect helplessness in
the hands of Luke Somerton.

“You may laugh, Shuff, but by Jove it’s true; so take timely warning,
and if ever you should go down to Barton Hall mind how you look at Amy
Somerton.”

Mr. Tallant, senior, it would seem, had no liking for Mr. Shuffleton
Gibbs, and he had privately intimated to his son that he would rather
that gentleman were not amongst the friends whom he introduced to
Barton Hall.

“If ever I go to Barton Hall!” said Mr. Gibbs. “I begin to think I
shall never have the opportunity; my distinguished and most hospitable
friend, Richard Tallant, Esq., has not yet honoured me with an
invitation, even to a shooting-party, on the estate which calls him
heir.”

“Why, to tell you the truth,” replied Mr. Tallant, junior, with an air
of great candour; “I can’t, you see; I’ve often thought I would make a
clean breast of it, and tell you. The governor objects to you somehow
or other; doesn’t like you; wishes me not to ask you to Barton.”

“That’s candid, begad,” said Mr. Gibbs, becoming a little redder in the
face than usual. “Objects to me!”

“Stupid prejudice, but so it is; he doesn’t understand bucks of fashion
like you, Shuff; and he’s heard about one or two of what you call your
little affairs. And I am not very sorry either, Shuff; for I think the
less he sees of you the better for me.”

“You’re devilish cool this morning, Dick Tallant, and--”

“And what?” said Mr. Tallant, hastily interrupting his friend, who
showed unmistakable signs of anger. “Why, you know you’re an infernal
rascal, Shuff, and that I’m not much better myself; so let’s have no
brag about insults and all that sort of thing; I’m in with you for a
short life and a merry one, so never mind the governor. _Il ne faut pas
éveiller le chat qui dort_, as they say in France, vide Macdonnel.”

Mr. Shuffleton exhibited his teeth, and haw-hawed several times, and
Mr. Tallant, junior, slapped him on the back.

“You’re a trump, Dick, ’pon my soul you are,” said Mr. Shuffleton
Gibbs, in an affected burst of magnanimity; “I was inclined to be
savage just now, but I see the frankness of your disclosure in the true
light, after your explanation.”

“All right, old fellow,” said Mr. Tallant, “give me your hand upon it,
and we are Siamese twins again; but let us finish the sherry.”

The two friends fell to with a will after this, and chatted quite
genially together about a hundred trivial things, until Big Ben tolled
four o’clock, when Mr. Richard Tallant mounted a splendid mare, and,
followed by a sprightly groom on an animal of almost equal value,
ambled towards the Park; whilst Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs betook himself
quietly to his lodgings in Kensington Park Gardens, prior to keeping an
engagement, he said, at the Corner, before dinner.

“The infernal impudent humbug,” said Mr. Gibbs to himself, as he walked
smartly homewards; “the twopenny-halfpenny mushroom, sprung from a
northern dunghill--never mind, I’ll be even with him some day. Fifty
talents of silver invested in iron! Of late the fellow has assumed
an air of superiority, and a bullying manner, which is devilish hard
to bear. Wait a little, wait a little, _très bon ami_; you’ll find
yourself in the mire one of these days.”

It _was_ hard to bear, no doubt, but Richard Tallant was a very
profitable investment to Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, and he could afford to
bottle up his Brummagem resentment; for such a fellow as Shuffleton
Gibbs could hardly be said to have any honourable feelings of
resentment. He was bankrupt, not only in purse, but in reputation; he
might have got over the former in time, but he could never whitewash
the latter.

Mr. Christopher Tallant had been proud of his son the first time he had
seen him, prancing and capering in the Lady’s Mile, as he pranced and
capered soon after Mr. Gibbs left him. Mr. Tallant had gone down to the
Park quietly on foot, and, unobserved, had seen his son a leading man
of fashion, on the best horse amongst the most magnificent of all the
splendid animals there. He had seen him acknowledged by many a dashing
rider, and had watched him turn out into the carriage-drive, to ride
beside a gorgeous yellow brougham, with beautiful women in it. Somehow
the merchant could not help feeling annoyed with himself for harbouring
such a pride as this; but he had not forgotten the Oxford epigram,
and he liked to see a Tallant riding about amongst the big men, the
greatest swell of the lot.




                              CHAPTER V.

                   THE DIBBLES AND THEIR NEW LODGER.


Thomas Dibble, the porter, who held himself at the beck and call of the
principals and officers of the Meter Iron Works Company at Westminster,
lived in one of those numerous little streets which run off from the
semi-aristocratic regions of St. George’s Square, South Belgravia, to
Whitehall; and his wife let lodgings and wore gorgeous caps.

She was quite a study this Mrs. Dibble, quite a psychological study.
She governed Dibble, and yet made him her shield and protection in the
most amusing and complete fashion. She was a fat, rubicund woman, with
her dress either unfastened behind or before, and her cap hanging on
the back of her head, both in summer and winter, as if she were in a
perpetual state of perspiration.

She was by no means an ill-looking woman. Dibble in his cups had told
his friends that she was a regular beauty when first he knew her, as
fair as waxwork, sir. But her tongue; well it was a caution, Mrs.
Dibble’s tongue, and she had a sort of intermittent lisp, which instead
of being an impediment in any way to the rapidity of her utterances
only seemed to facilitate them, enabling her to slip and slide over an
argument and abbreviate long words until her hearers might sometimes
imagine she was pouring out a series of compound syllables in some
unknown tongue. But that was only when she was in a passion, thank
goodness, which did not occur more than once a week.

Dibble himself was a mild little fellow as a rule, and a profound
admirer of Mrs. D.’s accomplishments. She had learnt to play the
piano when she was at school in her youth; and when she sat down to a
five-and-a-half octave square of Broadwood’s on Sunday nights in her
black satin dress, Dibble would sit by the fire and feast his eyes
upon her with unsophisticated delight.

It was not a very symmetrical figure neither, Mrs. Dibble’s, as you
viewed it at the piano, and the two hooks-and-eyes which were undone
near the middle of her back did not make it any the more elegant.

Mrs. Dibble usually thumped at the Old Hundredth and a wonderful
variation of “Vital Spark,” until her cap fell off and her hair came
down, when she would close the “box of music” and utter twenty voluble
regrets that she had so few opportunities of practising and keeping up
her fingering.

But Mr. Dibble did not agree with her on this point; it was the only
one he was permitted to dispute; he vowed she played as well as if she
had no end of practice.

“You be fit for a concert,” he would say, “that you be.”

Not that Thomas Dibble exactly knew what a concert was, never having
been present at anything of the kind, except on the occasion of a
_soirée_ at Gloucester when he went to a Sunday school there.

Dibble was bred and born in Gloucestershire, and had risen from a
kitchen menial to a place in the household at Barton Hall two counties
off, whither he had been recommended by a clergyman of the cathedral
city. He was not in Mr. Tallant’s service more than a year before he
was promoted to the portership at Westminster.

The Barton housekeeper gave him an introduction to a relative of hers,
Miss Wilhelmina Stikes, of Still Street, and after a few visits to that
buxom spinster, Miss Stikes made love to Thomas, proposed to him, and
married him in less than three months.

They had now been united some twenty years, and on the whole Mr.
Dibble did not regret his bondage. He had always been accustomed to
servitude; so the yoke of the fair-fat-and-loquacious Miss Stikes was
not difficult to the patient and forbearing Thomas Dibble.

“So we are to ’ave a new lodger, Mithter Dibble, in the purthon of the
bailifth’s son; well, so be it, though when my pa educated me for a
lady, and being a builder he could do that because his property were
naturally his own and if he had been thpared he would no doubt ’ave
retired on it, educated for that thpere it never occurred to me that
I should ’ave to take the hoffsprigs of bailifths into my house, but
there is no knowing what we may come to, and if you fulfil the duties
of the life which has come upon you, though without your own conthent I
can’t see after all that there’s anything to be ashamed of,” said Mrs.
Dibble to her husband after a tripe supper, on the evening when Mr.
Richard Tallant had promised to meet his friend Gibbs at the club.

“Yes, he be coming to-morrow; and I was thinking he might have the
little back sittin’ room,” said Dibble, deferentially.

“Thank you, Dib, for your thoughts, but I may remark, as I have
remarked before, that _I_ will do the thinking; I did it for my pa
during all his contracts, and made out the thpethifications which were
for two railway bridges, and more than one or two streeth, and ith not
unlikely that I shall be fully competent to think for you, Mithter
Dibble; but, at the thame time, I will own that I had thought of the
back thitting-room mythelf, and there’s a chest of drawers bed which
Captain MacStrawsel, of the Blues, said was a perfect bed of roses; and
it may, therefore, be fairly reckoned that a bailifth’s son may recline
upon that which, if his conscience is at rest, he may repose upon as
well as in a palace.”

Mr. Dibble said “Yes,” and Mrs. Dibble mixed for him, as was her wont,
a mild glass of gin, which he proceeded to sip in company with the
accomplished partner of his bosom, who invariably said, whenever she
took spirits publicly, “that it was not as she liked sperrits or any
other allycholic liquors, but it were a necessity to her, seeing the
great strain that was constant on her nerves, owing to having both
mental and physical labour more than common.”

After a short visit to the farm, Paul Somerton went to London, and,
after due introduction to Mrs. Dibble, entered upon his duties at the
Iron Company’s offices. He saw little of Mr. Richard Tallant, and less
of his father; but he heard a great deal about both from old Dibble.

Once a week Mrs. Dibble permitted Thomas to spend an evening out with
Paul. She said she was not one for letting a young man run about London
in an evening without a guide, and she thought her Thomas’s experience
of the place might be of some benefit to Paul, and she would not hear
of any opposition to an arrangement by which she proposed to set apart
“closing time,” on Friday nights until half-past ten, for Thomas Dibble
to show Paul Somerton some of the sights of London.

Mrs. Dibble also at the same time arranged to entertain her own
particular friends at home on these evenings, and so balanced off her
generosity to poor Dibble, her husband. Thomas Dibble soon became a
bore to Paul Somerton.

So soon as the young man began to know his way about town, so soon did
he become tired of Dibble, and ashamed of him, too; for Paul was not
altogether a stranger to the manners and feelings of a gentleman, and
was a good-looking fellow withal; whilst poor Dibble was nothing more
than a respectable porter at any time.

Besides, Dibble was perpetually praising Mrs. Dibble, and would stop to
buy hot potatoes in the street, and “penn’orths” of pudding; so Paul
decided to shake him off, but his determination was changed by a letter
from his sister.

“What should Amy want to know all about Mr. Richard for?” said Paul,
reading a letter in bed, one Sunday morning, some weeks after his
residence in London.

“And who is Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs; and what the deuce business is it of
hers if young Hammerton is often with them?” he continued, staring up
from the letter to the ceiling.

“Please, sir, it’s nine o’clock. Mrs. Dibble said I were to tell you,”
said a voice through the keyhole.

“All right,” said Paul; “and hang Mrs. Dibble.”

“Were I to say so, please?” asked the voice.

“No, confound you,” said Paul; “but tell Dibble I shall go for a walk
with him after chapel.”

It was the custom of Thomas Dibble to take what he called “a little
constitutional” after chapel, and before dinner--just half-an-hour’s
stroll, whilst Mrs. Dibble changed her chapel-going satin, and dished
up the dinner.

It was a rare thing for Mr. Paul Somerton to volunteer to accompany Mr.
Dibble; but he did so on the Sunday in question, and, as they walked
by the Thames, watching the steamers pass and repass with their loads
of noisy pleasure-seekers, Paul asked Dibble a variety of puzzling
questions about Mr. Richard Tallant, and his friend, Shuffleton Gibbs.

“Ise no spy, Mr. Somerton, and Ise not an owl, or a dormouse,” said Mr.
Dibble, looking as knowing as he could at Paul.

“Certainly not, Dib,” said Paul; “certainly not; you know a thing or
two.”

“Well, I dur say, and I knows nothing about the things you speaks of.”

“What, don’t you know who Mr. Gibbs is, and how he lives, and why he is
a friend of the son’s and not of the father’s?” asked Paul.

“It bain’t my business to know,” said Mr. Dibble.

Paul Somerton pumped old Dibble all the way home, but to little or no
purpose; and the porter’s dogged silence aroused Paul’s own curiosity
about his sister’s inquiries.

“Does Mr. Richard attend much at the office? Who and what is Mr. Gibbs?
Are they particular friends of Mr. Hammerton? Do they meet together
often? And where?”

These were the chief questions which Miss Amy Somerton required her
brother Paul to answer.

Paul was fond of his sister, and had always looked up to her as one of
superior knowledge to himself.

“I’ll tell you all you want to know, as soon as I can,” he wrote to Amy
on the Monday. “But why are you so inquisitive?”

There are thousands of brothers and sisters without affection for each
other. We say of So-and-so, “I loved him as if he were my brother;”
or, “Mary So-and-so--if she had been my own sister, I could not have
felt more regard for her.” It is flattering to our humanity that these
illustrations of regard and affection should be in use. Nine families
out of ten quarrel amongst themselves, and brothers and sisters are
the deadliest enemies of brothers and sisters, thwarting each other in
childhood and at maturity, stepping in each other’s way, disgracing
each other, and making the very name they mutually bear hateful to
both. Happy, indeed, are brothers and sisters who really and truly
love each other; for there is not a holier, not a more beautiful
passion.

Paul Somerton would have done anything in the world for Amy. He
remembered so many hours made happy by her love and foresight. They had
nearly broken their hearts over parting when he went to school; and Amy
had quite a box-full of his boyish letters, carefully preserved. She
thought there was the making of a great man in Paul; he was like his
father in temper and disposition--frank and outspoken, a hater of shams.

At first when Amy had written to him about the doings of Mr. Tallant,
and concerning Mr. Hammerton, Paul had scruples about his duty in the
matter; but it was sufficient for Paul that Amy assured him that she
had a proper and sufficient object in learning what she sought; and
Paul determined that Amy should soon know all she desired.




                              CHAPTER VI.

                THE TWO FRIENDS AND THE TWO VIGNETTES.


A fine old Norman cathedral, by the side of a famous river--the one
celebrated in history, the other a favourite with poets so long ago as
Spenser.

The great grey cathedral, with its high pitched towers, and its
crumbling walls, threw big dark shadows on the green turf of the
college close, where half-a-dozen comfortable houses formed two sides
of a square. In the centre grew a clump of venerable elms, the home of
a colony of crows which were everlastingly calling to each other from
above.

The other two sides of the square were filled in by the cathedral’s
grey walls, and an old gateway.

The river flowed on without--the famous river with its sedgy banks.
It flowed on outside the monastic-like square, noiselessly mostly,
bearing lazy barges on its big brown bosom towards the sea. When the
floods came down from the west it roared and whirled along in curls
and eddies, the colour of coffee, like Kingsley’s salmon river in the
“Water Babies.”

In the distance, from the upper windows of the cathedral close, on that
side where Arthur lived, you could see the Linktown hills, with their
graceful curving lines cut out against the sky; and if you had stood
upon the Linktowns you might have seen another range of hills, which
shut out Barton Hall from the rude world.

Arthur Phillips, as I have said, lived in this College Green, and his
studio was at the top of one of those old houses, which had a glorious
landscape before it, with the Linktowns for a background.

It was a curious old room, Arthur’s studio, with mullioned windows in
it, and a wonderfully carved fireplace, with grinning heads cut in the
mantelpiece. Several lay-figures were carelessly placed at one end of
the room, and there were a couple of easels with half-finished pictures
upon them. A few sketches in oil and in water-colours were hung about
the room, and there was a guitar upon an old carved couch, and a large
portfolio beside it. The artist wore a loose blouse, and looked at home
in manner and appearance amongst his miscellaneous treasures.

Young Hammerton was a handsome fellow, one of a handsome stock. The
Hammertons had been Earls of Verner for a century or more, and there
was never known an ill-looking man or woman amongst them since the
period when they came into the old island with the Norman Conqueror.

But there must have been much Saxon intermarrying in the family if
one might judge from the fair skin and brown curly hair of Lionel
Hammerton. And he was of sturdy make withal--a fine specimen of a
handsome young Englishman, with a full hazel eye, and white regular
teeth.

Lionel and Arthur had known each other for several years, the
friendship commencing through a series of drawing lessons which Arthur
Phillips had given Mr. Hammerton at Earl Verner’s residence.

The Earl, Lionel’s brother, was a man of great taste in the arts, and
he had been Arthur’s first patron.

Arthur had exhibited several pictures unsuccessfully at the great
Midland Counties Exhibition, when Earl Verner singled out a landscape
with figures in the foreground, by Mr. Phillips, as the best, the most
conscientiously painted picture of that year.

This was Arthur’s first start; the Earl purchased the picture, and the
papers spoke of it in high terms of praise. The _Art Journal_, in a
brief sketch of the Exhibition, noticed this painting as the work of
one of the most promising artists of the day; and next season two works
of Arthur’s were hung at the Royal Academy, and Success came unto him,
and marked him for her own.

Earl Verner gave him several commissions, and placed Lionel Hammerton
under him as a pupil, and this was how their friendship began.

He was a contrast to Arthur Phillips, who often noticed it, and drew
little caricature sketches to illustrate it, which Lionel laughed at,
and threatened to send to _Punch_ as character studies.

Lionel had, indeed, once sent one of Arthur’s funny bits to _Punch_,
which brought a polite note from the editor of that famous periodical,
soliciting a closer acquaintance with the artist; but Mr. Phillips was
a lazy fellow, and his pencil only cut funny capers when Earl Verner’s
brother stirred him up, and suggested comical subjects.

“By Jove! if I were not to come in now and then, and laugh at you,
you’d die of melancholy,” said Lionel Hammerton, on one of his recent
visits to Arthur’s studio.

“No, I don’t think that,” said Arthur, lighting the cigar which his
friend handed to him; “but your society is fatal to dulness. I am too
poor a companion to reciprocate the pleasure which your society gives
me.”

“Nay, dear boy, you are wrong there; I have spent some of my happiest
hours in this old studio of yours, Arthur. What is it that makes an
artist’s den, as you call it, so free and easy, and yet so _distingué_?”

“One gets out of the world, and a little nearer the better land, in a
room consecrated to art, even if the prophet be but a dotard, perhaps,”
said Arthur.

“And its perfect freedom--the absence of conventionality--the Bohemian
character of the class called artists--their opposition to the forms
and ceremonies, eh?”

“The artist only worships one goddess, I suppose; and she permits
smoking, loose garments, unwashed hands, and slippers. Light your
cigar,” Arthur went on, carelessly, offering his friend a fusee.

“What a grand thing it is, too, the painter’s art; of all arts the
most delightful, the most satisfying! He is not like the writer, who
must be read and studied before his audience can understand and enjoy
what he has done. The effect of the artist’s work on the beholder is
instantaneous, the reward of his genius is immediate; to say nothing
of his own personal delight and satisfaction. But I’m getting prosy,
Arthur. Have you been into the Berne neighbourhood lately?”

“Yes, I was there during several days in last week,” said Arthur.

“Well, any news, _mon ami_: are your friends all well?”

Arthur looked at Mr. Hammerton with a curious smile, as he replied, “Do
not my views of Avonworth Valley give additional charms to my studio,
Lionel?”

“News or views--which did you say? views, of course--well, so they do,
and so they will continue to do, as long as you find such lovely bits
of nature there,” said Lionel, laughing.

“Which do you prefer--the landscape or the figure studies?” Arthur
inquired, still smiling, though a little sadly.

“I like them both; but there was a head which you were going to finish
when I was here last. I don’t see it anywhere,” said Lionel, whose eyes
had been wandering into every corner of the room.

“Here it is,” said Arthur. “I have been making a double study of
heads;” and he brought out of a small case, from a cupboard by the
window, two water-colour sketches, and looked curiously into Lionel’s
face as his handsome friend examined them.

The first was something like that picture which appeared in the Strand
shops some years afterwards.

Mr. Phillips had drawn the face full, and thrown the hair backwards in
wavy folds. The lips were parted, and the eyes looked you in the face,
full of hope and trust, and innocence.

Lionel laid this first study down, after a hasty glance or two at it,
and then fairly “devoured” the second one.

A smothered sigh of relief escaped from Arthur as he noticed this, and
a happy smile moved his lips as he watched the expression of approval
which lit up Lionel’s face whilst gazing at the darker beauty.

“By Jove,” said Lionel, after a long pause, “it is exquisite! What a
head! Talk of blood, why this head has all the character of a high-bred
racehorse.”

Arthur smiled, and puffed out a long thin wreath of smoke.

“What eyes! what a neck! And the hair bound tightly to the head,
setting off those little ears! And the chin!--why, all the lines of
beauty are exhausted here,” Lionel went on; and Arthur almost trembled
with delight.

“Give me your hand,” he said at length, no longer able to control his
feelings. “Give me your hand, Lionel Hammerton.”

“With all my heart,” said Lionel, looking as much astonished as he had
previously been delighted. “But what, in the name of all the Arts and
Sciences, is the matter with you? I’m not praising the painter, but the
subject. You have not suddenly become vain, Arthur?”

“No, no,” said the artist, pushing back his long black hair; “it is
because you are praising the subject that I am delighted, Lionel. You
love Amy Somerton.”

“Stop, stop, not so fast, friend Arthur,” said Lionel, colouring a
little, and appearing still more surprised at the artist’s unusual
excitement.

“If you are in love at all, it is not with--with Miss Tallant?” Arthur
went on, his big piercing eyes fixed intently on his friend.

“Oh, oh!” said Lionel, putting his hand upon Arthur’s shoulder, and
laying down Amy Somerton’s portrait. “Oh, oh! Have I caught you in your
own trap, my poor little friend?” said Lionel. “It is _you_ who are in
love! Nay, man, don’t look so woe-begone about it.”

“And you?” said Arthur, hanging his head like a schoolboy.

“May be some day, friend Arthur,” said Lionel; “but _not_ with Miss
Tallant--_not_ with Miss Tallant.”

“Thank God for that!” said the artist, sitting down and fixing his eyes
upon the distant hills, which the sun was making golden.

Lionel’s manner of meeting Arthur’s half confession of love for Miss
Tallant and fear of rivalry, did not for the moment please the artist,
whose sensitive nature revolted at the apparently cool and critical
treatment of his friend.

But when young Hammerton said, “Arthur, my boy, don’t fear me, go in
and win,” the artist forgot his momentary displeasure, and smiled half
sadly, half comically, at his friend; and then told him how he had been
unable to struggle against his admiration for Miss Tallant, and how it
had ripened into love.

Lionel promising not to betray Arthur’s confidence, laughed at the
artist’s notion that he was indulging in an utterly hopeless and
futile passion.

“I suppose you will be at the Festival of the Three Choirs to-morrow,”
said Mr. Hammerton by-and-by, when they had changed the subject and he
had lighted his last cigar.

“I shall be in some part of the building,” Arthur said. “I have the
_entrée_ you know by certain private doors; I am rather a favourite
with the Dean and Chapter. I look down upon you from arches high
up aloft, I listen to the music at various points. I should be too
restless to sit all the time squeezed up amongst the audience.”

Severntown, you must know, was celebrated for its Festival Concerts in
the cathedral, which had been originated as early as 1724, resulting
in noble collections for charitable purposes, and of which the local
journalist a hundred years ago exclaimed, “May God grant that all
charitable undertakings may be carried on with that becoming zeal and
Ardency of Affection which Matters of such allow’d Importance must
always very justly claim!” Newspaper writers in those days, you see,
said what they had to say briefly, and tersely, and to the point.

I mention these Severntown Festivals not with any intention of
describing one of them, but simply because of the train of thought
which the mention of the event by Mr. Hammerton excited in the mind of
Arthur Phillips.

It was at the Festival, three years previously, that Arthur had first
seen Phœbe Tallant, a mere girl, but of such striking beauty that
the image was fixed in his mind, as if it belonged to the glorious
music,--sanctified by the time, and the place, and the holy strains.

And he had gone on the following day, and peered out amongst the throng
to see the same face again, but he saw it not; so he went quietly
alone into the Lady Chapel to think of it, and build up the image in a
picture of angels which he had thought, more than once, of painting. He
never forgot the varied sensations which had been excited within him
by that solitary ramble through private corridors into the Lady Chapel.

Shakspeare, Milton, and Pope have sung the delights of “hidden music.”
Who has not stood at night in some quiet churchyard with his thoughts
reverentially turned to heaven by the solemn strains of an evening hymn
rippling out through the half-open doorway? Who has not sat without the
precincts of cathedral choirs and felt the power of religious strains
move him more deeply than when in the presence of the choristers? Is it
that the mind likes to fall back upon itself now and then, to wed the
music to its own hopes and aspirations?

The Lady Chapel was quite shut out from the choir, nave, and aisles.
As Arthur stood there the whole of the auditory and performers were
completely away from view. The altar-screen was between him and the
gay _parterre_ of bonnets, hemmed in by the surrounding margin of
baize and matting. Around him were decaying monuments, themselves
needing memorials (as Crabbe puts it in “The Borough”); half-finished
slabs fresh from the hands of the restorer, and other evidences of the
struggle of the present to preserve the past.

Subdued morning beams came in through tiers of lancet lights; and
mounting up, echoing along the fretted roof of the nave, the strains
of the chorus came streaming in upon him over the screen, filling
the little chapel with exquisite harmonies which seemed to die away
in mysterious vaults and corridors. In pianissimo passages of solo
or chorus the music receded, and died away in the west, like faint
memories of former strains.

This was a memory worth cherishing; but it was fixed in the artist’s
mind as much by the association of the previous day as it was by its
own intrinsic sublimity.

Six months afterwards it was that Arthur was introduced to Phœbe
Tallant, and then that dear memory came back to him, softened into a
kind of religious tint, as if it came through a painted window of the
mind.

“This girl is my destiny,” thought Arthur at once; for the face was
always in his mind, and somehow it was mixed up with thoughts that were
above the world, mixed up with dreamy pictures of cathedral aisles, and
with memories of swelling anthems.

For a time, after he knew Phœbe, Arthur feared he was drifting into
morbid sensibility. He had led a sober, monkish kind of life for years,
and with this new image in his mind he had at first given himself up to
wanderings about the old cathedral, and a sort of fascinating unreal
saint-worship which he carried out for a time on canvas; but as time
wore on he grew out of these morbid habits and once more there was
a healthy glow in his conversation and in his pictures. But he was
desperately, madly in love, nevertheless.




                              CHAPTER VII

              IS A SENTIMENTAL CHAPTER, CONTAINING A FEW
                     MORAL REFLECTIONS BY THE WAY.


Yes, Arthur Phillips was desperately in love. A silly thing that,
now-a-days, is it not? Love! All very well in poetry and romance; all
very well for school-girls and beardless boys.

But may we not excuse an artist for fostering such a ridiculous
passion? It is something in his line, you know. Painters, Senior
Mammon will probably say, are ridiculous fellows at best. They spend
their time in a fool’s paradise, studying the changes of the sky,
making copies of trees and leaves, and lashing themselves into furious
excitement about the glories of summer mornings and autumn sunsets.

You saw some of the race at Bettys-y-Coed, in Wales, you know, Senior
Mammon, when you were “doing” the neighbourhood of Snowdon. Poor
devils! you remember how they were roaming about the rivers and rocks,
and painting beneath umbrella tents. And you saw how some of them were
content to live in those little cottages, and how they trudged about
in the hot sun on foot, with their colour-boxes and things strapped to
their backs.

Don’t you remember saying to Signora Mammon that it was a pity the
strapping fellows you meet at the Conway Falls are not better occupied
than in sketching stones and trees.

You buy the artist’s pictures sometimes, to keep him from starving,
because you are charitably disposed,--eh, Senior Mammon? And to obtain
for yourself a character for taste, as that sort of thing is necessary
in polite circles,--eh, dear friend?

“But they are poor devils, after all,” you say; and “an artist in love
with Christopher Tallant’s daughter must be an idiot indeed.”

It is a pity Mr. Tallant is not informed of the tutor’s infernal
presumption, you say. He would soon send him to the right-about, he’s
such a proud fellow, you know, that Tallant.

“In love!” you repeat. “In rubbish! He should come with me, and air his
little bit of brains on the Stock Exchange; he should know what it is
to make a hundred thousand pounds in a week, and lose it in a day; he
should see what women are, how they sell themselves body and soul for
money.”

There, friend Mammon, you need say no more. Arthur Phillips does not
understand you, and if he did, he would continue in love with Miss
Tallant just the same.

Strange, it must be to love a woman with all your heart and soul,
and let her live on, unconscious of your admiration; to be with her,
to listen to her sweet soft voice, to assist in the development of
her taste, to minister to her fancy, to cultivate her love of the
beautiful; and yet not dare to confess your love!

The river flowed on its way, and the sun went down behind the hills;
the tones of the evening bell echoed through the college yard; and
long after the heir of the Verners had left his friend, the artist sat
smoking his cigar in the twilight, thinking of Phœbe Tallant--thinking
of her as he might think of some beautiful vision of the poet--thinking
of her with a love in his heart that was more than love. And yet she
seemed a necessity in his life, something that made life worth living
for--something next to his art.

He was quite alone in the world; he had neither mother nor father. He
had been brought up in a quiet, humble way, and his father and mother
both died before their son had achieved success as an artist.

It would have been the greatest happiness possible for him at that
time, could he have shown his father the picture which first made his
name known to the world as a painter. His mother had been a querulous
invalid most of her life, and had few feelings in common with her son.
The father, on the contrary, had been full of hope and trust in Arthur;
but he was not to live to see these hopes realised.

So that Arthur’s success had been tainted with a bitter sense of
disappointment; he had no sympathiser in his triumph--none who knew how
hard he had worked--none who knew the gigantic difficulties which he
had overcome.

The people with whom he mixed knew him since success had come to his
brush; and Phœbe Tallant had roused the strong feelings which had lain
dormant within him.

His love, though excited by a sudden glimpse of the girl’s beauty,
had been strengthened by gradual growth, by little graceful acts,
indications of sympathy and interest on the part of his pupil. He had
struggled against it, and had felt once or twice that he was guilty of
a breach of trust in harbouring such a passion for a moment.

It was true Mr. Tallant had asked him, as a favour, to give lessons to
his daughter. The merchant, as you know, liked to have things which
everybody could not have, no matter what he paid for them: and it was
with something of this feeling that he had obtained the services of an
artist who had suddenly risen above the necessity of teaching.

“I did not wish to come here at first,” Arthur would argue to himself.
“He almost forced me.”

The idea of marrying Miss Tallant had never once occurred to Arthur.
In the first place, he regarded his passion as a piece of presumption.
He was unworthy in every respect, he thought, of Phœbe’s love; and he
never dreamed for a moment that she suspected the real state of his
feelings towards her.

Although his name was so high in art, Mr. Tallant only looked upon
Arthur as a tutor, and he would have regarded an offer of marriage
for his daughter from such a source as an insult. But it was not in
this mere worldly sense that Arthur felt himself inferior to Phœbe.
His love and admiration had made a niche for her high up in his fancy,
far beyond his brightest hopes, and he seemed to look up at her and
worship, with a fearful, jealous, burning pleasure.

Who would have thought that so much passion could have a place behind
that calm, thoughtful, and reserved manner of the landscape painter?




                             CHAPTER VIII.

                 IN WHICH PAUL SOMERTON ENTERS UPON A
               DELICATE, DIFFICULT, AND DANGEROUS TASK.


Mr. Richard Tallant was a member of several London clubs. The one to
which his friend Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs invited him was a third-rate
establishment, rapidly degenerating into a mere association of gamblers.

The members met in an evening and kept up in appearance mild whist at
shilling points; but large bets were made upon the odd tricks, “each
and every.”

Loo was not permitted because it was too much of a gambling game. The
Ashford Club assumed a virtue they did not possess. Members might bet a
thousand pounds on the odd trick at whist, but they must not play Loo.

It was here that Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs made most of his money, and there
was every reason to fear that Richard Tallant was not above helping
him. The spirit of gambling had fairly taken possession of Richard’s
mind, and he sank with it into the practice of all sorts of vices.

In the City Mr. Richard Tallant was known as a young, wealthy,
devil-may-care fellow, a man to know, and a man to fear. He often
speculated largely, unknown to his father, and had more than once
“rigged” the share market to great advantage. His position gave him
excellent opportunities to obtain information which was of financial
value, and Shuffleton Gibbs was deep enough to put his friend up to all
sorts of stock-jobbing tricks that often turned him in good round sums
of money.

One would have thought that this legalised gambling would have been
sufficient for Mr. Tallant and his friend Gibbs; but Gibbs was an old
card-sharper; he loved the fierce excitement of the table, and there
was more certain success in a doctored card and a loaded dice than in
stock-jobbing.

You see we don’t at all disguise Mr. Gibbs’s character; he was a
thorough-paced blackguard, and Mr. Richard Tallant was graduating very
successfully in the Blackguard school. At present he is not aware that
Gibbs is indebted to anything but skill for his success at cards: he
has never seen the disgraced Oxford _roué’s_ private room.

Paul Somerton’s inquiries had not led him to a knowledge of all that
we have here set down; but in less than a month he had come to the
conclusion that Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs was a scoundrel, and that Mr.
Richard Tallant was not conducting himself in a manner calculated to
uphold the honour of his father’s name.

And young Hammerton, the heir to the earldom of Verner: no good
could come of his association with Mr. Gibbs and Tallant junior. How
persistent Amy was in her inquiries about Mr. Hammerton!

“I can’t see why you be so anxious to know all about their goings on,”
said Mr. Thomas Dibble, in one of their once-a-week perambulations.

“Well, never mind, old boy,” said Paul; “you and I are good friends and
always will be. Why cannot we have our little confidences like other
people?”

“No reason at all,” said Dibble, looking round at a baked-potato stove.

“Have a potato?” said Paul, stopping his friend forcibly as they were
turning into Piccadilly.

Mr. Dibble stared at him to see if he were in earnest.

“All right, old boy; I know you like them; have one, don’t mind me.”

Dibble instantly complied with Paul’s request, and was soon engaged in
devouring the mealy esculent.

In a few minutes he said, as well as he could speak with a mouthful of
the baked temptation,--

“That be kind of you now, Master Paul, very; you knows I likes
taters,--we’ve all our likes and dislikes, eh, Mister Somerton? My
weakness is Mrs. Dibble and baked pertaters!”

“And pudding, old Dib--now confess.”

Old Dibble laughed, and said Paul was a regular good un; and from
this the porter was easily led on to repeat little things which he
occasionally saw and heard in Mr. Richard Tallant’s room.

Whilst they were talking, a brougham pulled up to the edge of the
pavement, and Paul saw that it was occupied by the Hon. Lionel
Hammerton.

“Let us wait here a few moments, Dib; I think I know that gentleman,”
said Paul, detaining his friend.

A smart footman leaped from the box, opened the carriage door, and out
stepped Mr. Hammerton, who immediately disappeared up a flight of steps
which led into a dingy but rather ostentatious building.

“Dib, old boy, we must see what place this is.”

“This?” said Dibble; “why it be the Ashford Club. I know Mister Fencer,
who takes care of the rooms; Mrs. Fencer be quite a crony of Mrs.
Dibble’s.”

“The Ashford Club, eh? I should like to have a peep at the place
inside, Dib.”

“Well, that be easy enough, I s’pose. Let us call and ask Mr. Fencer
how he be.”

They went up the flight of stone steps, and found Mr. Fencer, who
patronised Mr. Dibble in majestic style.

Fencer was a fussy, pompous person, as was also Mrs. Fencer, who was
absent this evening; being, in fact, on a visit to Mrs. Dibble. Fencer,
therefore, was fussier and more pompous than usual, and he took Mr.
Somerton and Dibble into his little room and treated them to hot
gin-and-water, _ad libitum_.

By-and-by Paul Somerton insiduously got on the blind side of Mr.
Fencer, and obtained permission to go and have a peep into the
card-room; where Paul, through a half-opened door, saw Mr. Richard
Tallant, Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, Mr. Hammerton, and another gentleman,
seriously occupied at cards. There were several other little card
parties in the room, but Paul had no eyes for any other table than that
at which the Hon. Lionel Hammerton was seated. Earl Verner’s brother
was evidently the greatest loser, though his partner, Mr. Tallant, was
also betting heavily, and unsuccessfully it seemed, with the fourth
gentleman, who was unknown to Paul.

This was enough for the present. Paul joined Fencer and Dibble again,
making himself particularly agreeable to the former, and promising to
pay him another visit on the first opportunity that occurred.

Meanwhile Paul cared for nothing more but to get back to Pimlico and to
bed. There was something wrong going on, Paul was sure; he would write
to Amy in the morning and reply fully to her inquiries.

Dibble was particularly communicative on the way home, on account of
Fencer’s large dose of gin; he told Paul that he would stick to him
till death, and tell him anything he knew. He believed Mister Gibbs
was no better than a swindler, and his master’s son was surely a
reprobate.

“You should have heard what Fencer told me private,” Dibble went on,
nodding his head, and clinging hard and fast to Paul Somerton’s arm:
“that Mister Gentleman Gibbs is a sort of Jeremy Diddler, sir, depend
on it; and master’s son is, they do say, the fastest man about town.”

“Indeed! all right, Dib. I’ll hold you up, old boy,” said Paul, as
Dibble plunged and fought his way through an imaginary crowd of
obstructions.

Dibble gradually becoming helpless, Paul was compelled to call a cab;
and they reached Still Street just in time to find Mrs. Dibble alone
and in good humour.

But a change rapidly came over the salubrious calm when Mrs. Dibble
noticed Thomas’s neck-tie twisted round to the back of his neck, and
saw him gazing at her in a helpless state of idiotic admiration and
amazement.

Turning upon Paul she poured out such a volley of declamation against
deceit, and the leading of innocence into temptation and sin, that
Paul was fain to rush off to bed, and leave poor Dibble to contend with
the remainder of the storm. He heard the matrimonial tempest raging
for fully an hour after he had retired, until at length it gradually
subsided, and peace was proclaimed in the sonorous snore of Dibblonian
repose.

It was long past midnight when the last card-party at the Ashford
Club broke up. Young Hammerton and Richard Tallant left together,
and Hammerton accepted the offer of a bed at Mr. Tallant’s house in
Connaught Place, where a cab soon deposited them.

The moon shone peacefully over the park as they crossed it, and made
silvery sparkles on the windows of the long, fashionable row of houses.

The trees stood out in the uncertain lights, with early spring leaves
upon them. The long rows of lamps looked yellow and out of place in the
pure light of the moon; and the distant whistle of a railway engine
seemed all the more to mark the morning stillness.

That whistle came home to Lionel Hammerton; it seemed to upbraid him,
and at the same time invite him to the country of the Berne Hills. He
had promised to return to his brother (who had been lying ill there for
several weeks) two days ago; but the infatuation of play had come upon
him, and his large losses of this evening had prompted him to endeavour
to retrieve his ill-luck on the morrow. Mr. Gibbs had promised him his
revenge, and Tallant and he were pledged to visit the Ashford on the
next night.

Mr. Tallant was light-hearted enough over his losses, whilst Hammerton
sat gloomily thinking of his, and the sick brother, for whom he had a
real affection. Mr. Richard Tallant hummed bits of an operatic chorus,
and the most popular bars of the latest waltz.

The two card acquaintances said scarcely a word until they bade each
other good-night; and before Mr. Tallant was up the next day the Hon.
Lionel Hammerton was steaming away on the Great Western to the halls
of his fathers by the Berne Hills.

A glorious old place that castle where Earl Verner resided, full of odd
nooks and corners, with quaint gables, and grey, ivy-clad turrets; a
castle which had held out for months during the great rebellion. The
older portion had been supplemented with some new buildings designed in
harmony with the ancient architecture of the original building.

Before this history is complete the reader may be called upon to visit
Montem Castle: until then it is not necessary, perhaps, to say more
than that it was the ancient seat of the Verner family.




                              CHAPTER IX.

                  WHICH INTRODUCES THE READER TO THE
             SUMMER-HOUSE ON BERNE HILLS, AND ILLUSTRATES
           THE TRUTH OF AN OLD PROVERB ABOUT EAVES-DROPPERS.


It was pleasantly situated at the top of Berne Hills. It had originally
been a watch-tower, but Mr. Tallant had converted it into what they
called the summer-house. There were comfortable seats in it, and a few
odd books and pictures. It commanded sixty miles or more of scenery,
flat, undulating, and mountainous; wood, water, and pastures; towns,
villages, and hamlets.

You might search the country through, and not find a scene more truly
English and more perfectly beautiful. In spring, if you journeyed to
that summit from Barton Hall, when the sun was shining and the sky
serene, you might fancy yourself in the Happy Valley indeed.

The way is over meadows, down lanes, up sloping hill-sides, through
woods, and by rippling water-courses. There are violets in the
hedgerows, and daffodils in the meadows, and primroses in the woods.
Anemones tremble in secluded thickets, and there are fruit-trees in
bloom in the distant orchards, that gleam through the faintly green
trees.

Phœbe Tallant and Amy Somerton walked up to the summer-house several
times in the spring and summer months; sometimes they rode part of
the way on rough ponies, but oftener they walked the whole distance,
interrupted only by a stray deer from the adjacent park of Montem
Castle or a fox from the Berne covers. Only, did I say, by a deer or a
fox? Truly; for was not Mr. Phillips a fox, to sketch so continually
amongst those Berne Hills?

The day after Amy Somerton had received her brother’s full report
about Mr. Hammerton, she proposed a walk to the summer-house, and Miss
Tallant gladly accepted the challenge.

Phœbe was always ready for a long ramble; and the spring sunshine on
this day was particularly inviting.

Taking their alpine sticks and donning their jauntiest hats, our two
fair maidens, arm in arm, passed over the smooth, green lawn, and soon
disappeared behind the shrubs and trees.

Luke Somerton, who had been up into the woods for a brace of rabbits,
watched them unobserved as they entered the lane near Barton Hall, and
an expression of pride lighted up his manly face as he gazed on the
supple and graceful form of his daughter Amy.

Richard Tallant spoke truly when he was joking Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs
about Somerton’s beautiful daughter. It would have been as much as any
man’s life were worth to have insulted Amy Somerton in the knowledge of
her father.

“I tell you, Luke Somerton,” said Mrs. S., when Luke entered the
house, “that Mr. Hammerton is bent upon no good with regard to Amy.”

“Stuff and nonsense!” said Luke, laying down his rabbits, and putting
his gun into a case by the fireplace.

“When you see a fox about the fold-yard, what do you think he is
seeking?” asked Mrs. Somerton, sneeringly.

“Foxes be hanged!” said Luke.

“And fools be hanged!” said Mrs. Somerton, banging the door, and
leaving her liege lord to his own thoughts.

“By all means,” said Luke, still thinking of the handsome women whom he
had seen in the lane.

“And that painter fellow,” said Mrs. Somerton, returning; “he’s in the
woods yonder. Old Tallant must have lost the small portion of brains
that God gave him to begin with, if he can’t see that his daughter is
befooling him.”

“Why, Sarah, you are mad on this point. These girls seem to worry your
life out.”

“Mad? You may trust a mother’s eyes, Luke Somerton, to see what’s going
on. I tell you, that ugly little blackamoor painter fellow is making
love to Miss Tallant, and that the future Lord Verner is sneaking about
after our Amy.”

“The future Lord Verner after Amy!--stuff! you’re dreaming, wife,” said
Luke.

“Some people’s dreams are as good as the waking thoughts of other
people,” Mrs. Somerton replied.

“Well, we shall see--we shall see,” said Luke, carelessly.

“Yes, when it’s too late,” Mrs. Somerton rejoined, with an emphatic nod
of her head.

And so the subject dropped. Meanwhile Phœbe and Amy were enjoying the
spring sunshine at the top of Berne Hills. The glorious beams shot down
upon the landscape from behind little scudding clouds, and made the
beech-trees shine like silver.

The river that wound its way from east to west shone out here and there
in great white patches.

Hundreds of shifting shadows fell upon hill and dale; lulling sounds
came up the hills from the villages round about; the birds sung as
they only sing in Avonworth Valley; and everything breathed of peace,
content, and happiness.

“And so you think Mr. Hammerton is getting into bad company, Amy?”
said Miss Tallant, when the two fair girls had sat down to rest in the
summer-house.

“He is, indeed,” said Amy, seriously.

“Gambling?”

“Yes; to a dreadful extent, Paul says.”

“May I see the letter, dear?” Miss Tallant asked, laying her hand
affectionately on Amy’s shoulder.

“I tell you candidly, Phœbe dear, I do not like to let you see what
Paul says about your brother.”

“Don’t mind that. I have long since believed my brother to be much less
noble in his conduct than could be desired,” said Phœbe.

“Have you ever heard of his friend, Mr. Gibbs?”

“No, dear. Who is he?”

“Oh, a dreadful man, I believe; unfit altogether for the society of
your brother.”

“Indeed,” said Mr. Richard Tallant, in a whisper, as he stood quietly
smoking a cigar near the open doorway of the summer-house. “The
conversation becomes interesting.”

“In what respect?” asked Phœbe.

“Why, dear, Paul has made every possible inquiry, and he pronounces
him to be no better than a swindler; and he says many men have been
transported and hanged who have done nothing worse than Mr. Gibbs has
done,” said Amy, with animation.

“Those are strong words, Amy,” said Miss Tallant.

“They are, by Jove!” said her brother to himself; “but true, I believe,
by my soul!”

“Not too strong, I fear, Miss Tallant,” Amy went on; “and----but I
would rather not show you the letter.”

“Now you are getting angry, _Miss_ Somerton,” said Amy, kissing her
companion’s cheek.

“Forgive me, dear Phœbe; I did not mean to use that odious word,
‘Miss.’”

And then the two girls kissed each other, and Amy handed Paul’s letter
to Miss Tallant without more ado.

“By Jove!” said Richard Tallant to himself, “that sister of mine is
a perfect fool. The bailiff’s daughter is fairly master of her; and,
egad, I don’t wonder at it.”

“This is indeed dreadful. Your brother has certainly been
indefatigable. Richard the associate of gamblers and the loosest men in
town, and sanctioning a plot to ruin Mr. Hammerton! This truly is sad
news,” said Miss Tallant, reading Paul’s letter, and commenting upon it
as she read.

“Yes, by Jove!” said Mr. Richard Tallant, dropping the remains of his
cigar, and crushing it under his heel. “So-ho, Master Sneak! I’ll be
even with you, my fine fellow. A devilish nice thing to be tracked
about by a junior clerk, set on by his sister, the daughter of my
father’s bailiff. We’ll see about this. Shall I play the eaves-dropper
any longer?”

“And what have you said in reply?” Phœbe asked, folding the letter, and
returning it to Amy.

“I have told Paul he must warn Mr. Hammerton in some way; that he must
take means to let him know that he is being duped.”

“You are putting too much on the boy’s shoulders, I think,” said Phœbe.

“Oh! I wish I were a man for one month--just for a month, Phœbe,” said
Miss Somerton, starting from her seat, her eyes sparkling, and her
little mouth pursed up. “But, alas! I am only a woman, and a vain,
weak, silly creature, I fear,” she continued, re-seating herself and
sighing.

“Weak and silly!” said Phœbe, quietly. “Why weak and silly?” Then
dropping her voice and putting her arm round Amy’s waist, she asked:
“Do I know why you call yourself weak and silly?”

Amy started and blushed, and bent her head, spirited and full of mettle
as she appeared to be a moment previously.

“Don’t blush, Amy dear. Do I know why you blush?” and Phœbe kissed her
companion’s forehead.

“I am a vain, silly, stupid creature, Phœbe; and you must despise me.”

Phœbe only pressed her friend’s hand in reply.

“You must easily have read all my heart to-day,” Amy went on, trembling
at her own temerity. “Paul’s letter, my hasty words this morning, my
interest in his doings, my----”

“Of course, of course,” said Phœbe, quite in a reassuring, comforting
way: “you love Mr. Hammerton. There, don’t start, my dearest, like
that. I _know_ you do, and why should you not?”

Pale and trembling Amy looked for a moment at her friend, and the tears
started into her eyes.

“You must think me mad,” she said.

“Indeed I do not, my pet,” said Phœbe, quite cheerfully, and kissing
Amy again. “It is natural to love a fine, dashing fellow like Mr.
Hammerton; quite natural in a high-spirited girl like you.”

“It is madness, vanity, and everything that is weak,” said Amy.

“Nonsense, nonsense, child!” Phœbe replied. “You are worthy the love of
the finest gentleman in England.”

“Ah, Phœbe! you and I know but little of the world. Mr. Hammerton is
as far above me as a prince is above a peasant. I am foolish, wickedly
foolish, to have permitted my liking to have got the better of my
judgment.”

“Why, I could almost venture to say Mr. Hammerton is in love with you
as much as you are in love with him,” said Phœbe, cheerily.

Amy shook her head sadly, as she thought of the difference between them
in rank and station.

“Bless me!” said Phœbe, divining her thoughts; “princes have married
peasant-girls before now, and shall not an earl’s son--and only a
younger son, remember--be proud of the love of a true and noble heart
like yours?”

Phœbe grew quite eloquent and enthusiastic. “Consult your favourite
poet when we return, Amy, and read about King Cophetua.”

“I need not ask you never to breathe a word of my silly confession to
anyone at any time?” said Amy, now a little more like her former self.

“Trust me,” said Phœbe, as she gathered up her hat and cloak, which had
lain upon the table.

“My feelings overcame me; but it is a relief now, even to have confided
my weakness and vanity to you,” said Amy; and then the two impulsive
beauties embraced each other again.

“Humph!” said Mr. Richard Tallant, “I must have a hand in this pretty
little business.”




                              CHAPTER X.

               MR. RICHARD TALLANT INTERRUPTS A CHARMING
                             TÊTE-À-TÊTE.


“Ahem! pleasant occupation truly,” said Mr. Richard Tallant, planting
himself in the centre of the summer-house doorway, and contemplating
the ladies, who stared in astonishment at the apparition.

“Any objection to take me into your embraces?” he went on, smiling,
walking up to Miss Tallant, kissing her on the forehead, and bowing
very politely to her companion.

“Why, how long have you been standing there, Richard?” asked Miss
Tallant, in some confusion.

“Not long,” said Richard, fixing his eyes on Miss Somerton; “but long
enough to be delighted at the charming picture of affection which you
presented to the view.”

“You have brought your town compliments with you, Richard,” said Phœbe.
“I fear they will be wasted upon us poor provincials.”

“I hope not; as I have come down to spend a couple of days with you,”
said Richard.

Miss Somerton said nothing, but she was convinced, by Mr. Tallant’s
manner, that he had heard at least a portion of her conversation with
his sister.

“I am sorry I interrupted your _tête-à-tête_,” said Mr. Tallant. “I
fear my sudden presence has not pleased Miss Somerton. You see, I
wanted a little rest and quiet, and hearing that Mr. Hammerton was at
home I thought I would first run down, spend a couple of days with you
and the governor, and then ride over to Montem and see a certain noble
swell, who has a little business with me. When I got to the house, I
found nobody in; so I followed you up here and smoked my cigar. I have
enjoyed the walk, I assure you; ’pon my honour, I have not had such a
treat for a long time.”

Mr. Tallant and Amy Somerton eyed each other more than once during this
little speech, and Amy was more and more convinced that Richard Tallant
had played the listener, which made her for a time constrained in her
manner; by-and-by she threw over her anxiety a forced liveliness, which
did not escape the notice of Mr. Tallant.

“Shall I have the honour of escorting you to Barton Hall?” he said; for
by this time the ladies had left the summer-house.

“We shall be honoured by so much condescension,” said Phœbe, smiling
archly. “Shall we not, Amy?”

“Very much so indeed,” said Miss Somerton; “and perhaps Mr. Tallant
will entertain us with the latest fashionable news.”

“By all means,” said Richard. “Lady Cooling has run away with her
groom; Viscount Fusswell has married the _piquante_ Miss Morris,--she
was a governess, I think, or something of the sort, and she’s a deuced
jolly girl. Do you care about scandal, Miss Somerton, by the way, or
will you have another sort of gossip?”

“Ask Miss Tallant, sir,” said Amy. “I have no right of choice in this
matter.”

“Then I don’t like it,” said Phœbe. “What is that little poem I was
reading the other day somewhere?” she said stopping, and tapping her
foot with her climbing-staff.

“Ah, what is it, Phœbe?

  ‘Phœbe, dearest,
  Tell, oh tell me,’”

said Richard, humming one of the English tenor’s favourite ballads.

  “‘A whisper broke the air,”--

said Phœbe, pausing. “Now I remember:--

  ‘A whisper broke the air,--
    A soft light tone, and low,
    Yet barb’d with shame and woe;
  Now, might it only perish there,
    Nor further go!
  Ah me! a quick and eager ear
    Caught up the little meaning sound!
  Another voice has breathed it clear,
    And so it wander’d round
  From ear to lip, from lip to ear,
  Until it reach’d a gentle heart,
    And that--_it broke_.’”

“Bravo, sis! bravo Phœbe!--delivered with fine effect,” said Mr.
Tallant. “May I smoke one cigar, just one?”

“With pleasure,” said Phœbe. “What do you say, Amy dear?”

“I have not the smallest objection; I rather like it.”

“It is better than scandal, infinitely,--eh, Miss Somerton?” said Mr.
Tallant, lighting a Cabana.

“Much,” said Amy.

“What do you think now,” said Richard, “they have been saying about me?”

“I seldom go to London,” said Amy.

“Why, a fellow told me that some scandal-monger or other was setting it
about that I am very fast, that I gamble.”

“Oh! that is dreadful,” said Miss Somerton, quickly. “That you are a
gambler?”

“Yes--fact, ’pon my life,” said Richard.

“They could not say anything worse about you than that, Mr. Tallant. A
gambler, I think, is the most despicable creature.”

“Of course,” said Richard, looking at Miss Somerton with a curious
expression of face.

“Since we have had one quotation, perhaps you will pardon another that
has direct reference to this point--a line from Talfourd. I have been
reading about gaming lately.”

Miss Somerton looked earnestly at Mr. Tallant, for now she was sure he
had heard what she had said in the summer-house.

“Indeed! Pray enlighten us,” said Mr. Tallant.

“Gaming, sir, for its own sake, will destroy the noblest nature, and
ruin the wealthiest.

              ‘What meaner vice
  Crawls there than that which no affections urge,
  And no delights refine?’

It

              ‘Changes enterprise
  To squalid greediness, makes heaven-born hope
  A shivering fever, and in vile collapse
  Leaves the exhausted heart without one fibre
  Impell’d by generous passion.’”

“Really, ’pon my honour--why, you two fair ladies must have been
studying elocution and all that sort of thing lately,” said Richard,
flicking off the top of a young ash-plant with his cane.

“I’m glad you condemn those scandalous aspersions of my character, Miss
Somerton; though, you see, all that pretty poetry is not much good, for
everybody gambles one way or another in turn. You should see the big
guns who do it in the City--real out-and-outers--members of Parliament,
and swells of the first water--I mean in buying and selling shares, and
what they call rigging the market, and all that sort of thing. Why, the
governor himself has done a little in that way in his time. But let
me see, where were we? Oh, about what people say. Well, I was told
the other day that young Hammerton was fond of cards; but, bless us,
there is always lots of scandalous things said about young fellows of
position; indeed, I heard something of Hammerton the other day which is
hardly proper to mention before ladies, and yet he’s as good a fellow
as there is going--don’t you think so, Miss Somerton?”

“That I certainly do,” said Amy, fully prepared for the sly attack;
“but many a good man has been led astray by ill-chosen companionship.”

“‘My son, if sinners tempt thee,’ &c.,--I see, yes,” said Richard, with
a slight sneer.

“You may laugh, Mr. Tallant,” said Amy, blushing at her own temerity;
“but many a free, generous-minded man has been brought to misery by the
companionship of a bad man, professing friendship which he never felt
or understood.”

“That reminds me,” said Mr. Tallant; “the same fellow who told me that
he had heard I gambled, told me that hard things were said of another
man whom I meet sometimes. Of course I cannot be answerable for the
character of every fellow I meet; it is all envy, hatred, and malice.”

“Bad company,” said Amy, “is like a nail driven into a post, which
after the first and second blow may be drawn out with little
difficulty; but being once driven up to the head, the pincers cannot
take hold to draw it out, but which can only be done by the destruction
of the wood. We had to turn that sentence into hexameters the other day
by order of Signor De Maury, our linguistic master,” said Amy; “I think
it rather a fine simile.”

“Indeed? yes, perhaps it is,” said Mr. Richard Tallant, thinking to
himself that the girl was “infernally impudent.”

By this time they had reached the last coppice, prior to coming out
into the open before Barton Hall; and at a picturesque bend in the
somewhat intricate footpath, they came suddenly upon Mr. Phillips, the
artist, who was sitting quietly contemplating a half-sketched-in clump
of spring foliage, pierced with a broad ray of sunlight.

The artist’s long black hair was thrown back, his hat lying on the
ground, and his sharply cut features were lit up with a smile of
satisfaction.

He had worked at this little sketch for many days, and had only just
accomplished what he considered to be a reasonable approach to the
production of a peculiar effect of sunlight upon firs and larches and
silver beech, with a background of rock and sky, in early spring.

For a moment he sat unconscious of the audience which stood before
him--one a lady, who had to make an effort to hide her agitation.

“Hope you’re satisfied, old boy,” said Mr. Tallant, approaching the
artist.

“Good-morning--good-morning, ladies,” said Mr. Phillips in his deep
mellow voice, and advancing to meet the party.

“Ah! deuced good--capital,” said Richard, standing in front of the
easel.

“Do you think so?” said the artist. “What do you think, Miss Tallant?
I have been working at this poor trifle of study, I am ashamed to say
how long.”

“I am sure you need not be ashamed,” said Miss Tallant, quietly.

“You have been highly successful, as you always are,” said Miss
Somerton.

“Come along, Phillips, come along; we are going to have luncheon. The
governor is away, and I’m master to-day. Come along, and we’ll talk
about the world and what it says. You ought to have been up the hill
with us; my lady friends have been wonderfully eloquent about good boys
and naughty boys, and all sorts of things. Tommy was a good boy; he
said his lessons, and never went into bad company, and he got some nice
cake. Billy was a bad boy, and he wouldn’t say his lessons, and he was
whipped, and he got no cake. There, don’t be angry, Miss Somerton,”
said Richard, rattling on and laughing at Amy, evidently glorying
in what he had heard; and yet piqued at her covert replies to his
pretended gossip.

“Angry! not I, Mr. Tallant. If Tommy is good, Tommy will be rewarded,
at any rate, with an approving conscience; and Billy--why, if he is
bad, he will assuredly be punished. And so let us go to luncheon.”

“Hear, hear! Come along, Phillips;” and as soon as the artist was
ready they all went together over the lawn, and disappeared within the
handsome portals of Mr. Tallant’s princely residence.




                              CHAPTER XI.

                 ANOTHER UNEXPECTED VISITOR APPEARS AT
                             BARTON HALL.


The drawing-room, library, and dining-room at Barton Hall were upon
the ground-floor, _en suite_. They had their several and separate
entrances from the hall and corridor beyond; and at the same time had
communications with each other from within.

The library was the centre apartment, with the dining and drawing-room
on either hand; so that, two doors being open, you could walk in a
direct line from one end of the suite of rooms to the other; and
a delightful walk it was, lit up by seven or eight magnificent
bay-windows, from each of which there were glorious views of the Berne
Hills.

The little party which entered the house at the close of our last
chapter, having lunched, adjourned into the library, where the window
opening from the ground was thrown up, in order that Mr. Richard
Tallant might sit just within and smoke one more cigar.

Miss Somerton strolled into the next room, and sat down to the piano,
letting her fingers wander dreamily over the keys.

Where he sat Mr. Tallant had, through the open doorway, a side-view
of her beautiful head; and feelings of disappointment, jealousy,
admiration, and annoyance, successively took possession of him as he
smoked, and looked, and listened.

Mr. Phillips was absorbed in the examination of some new illustrated
books which Mr. Christopher Tallant had sent from town for Phœbe, who
must have the artist’s opinion about them.

The artist talked about high art, ideality, and poetic licence. He
thought certain Dante pictures too literal in their interpretation
of the horrors of the “Inferno,” and he called some of the sketches
morbid and sensational. He was in raptures with half-a-dozen pictures
in a work of fairy fiction; but he was thinking all the while a great
deal more of Phœbe’s beauty than of anything else.

Mr. Richard Tallant could not help noticing the remarkable contrast
between the artist and his sister as they stood together looking at the
new books.

The fair _spirituelle_ face of the woman set in that sunny halo of
soft brown hair; and the sharp and highly intellectual features of the
artist intensified by the long black hair which fell upon the somewhat
rounded shoulders.

It brought to his mind for a moment a famous pre-Raphaelite picture;
but his thoughts wandered away instantly to Amy Somerton, who was
softly touching out the melody of “Life let us Cherish,” from amongst a
wealth of unobtrusive variations which Arabella Goddard has since made
so pleasantly familiar.

“And she loves young Hammerton, does she?” he thought, whilst he
smoked and nursed his left leg, and occasionally stroked his full black
moustache. “Love’s the probable successor to an earldom. She aims
high. Well, so be it. The fellow’s good-looking and conceited: he’ll
humour the lady’s fancy, of course. He can’t marry her; that’s out of
the question. She evidently thinks I’m a blackguard--that’s not so
pleasant; but Master Paul shall pay for that.”

The next moment the Hon. Lionel Hammerton was announced, whereupon Miss
Somerton rose from the piano, and the new comer was shown into the
library.

“Who would have thought of seeing you?” said Mr. Tallant, throwing his
cigar at a blackbird (which was hopping about on the lawn), and coming
forward to greet Mr. Hammerton, who was receiving a cordial welcome
from Miss Tallant.

“How do you do?” said the young aristocrat, extending his hand.
“Phillips, my friend, and how are you? I’m delighted to see you.”

“The delight is mutual,” said Arthur, shaking Mr. Hammerton heartily by
the hand.

“I saw one of your last pictures at Earl Stanton’s place in town three
days ago,” said Mr. Hammerton, “with three wonderful connoisseurs going
frantic about it. The Earl had given a hundred and fifty guineas for
it, they said. What do you think it was, Miss Tallant?”

“A landscape?” said Phœbe, with an inquiring smile.

“Well, I suppose it might be called a landscape. It was a bit of the
lake yonder, in the corner of the park, with a clump of trees at the
back, and some ducks amongst the grass and reeds at the side of the
pool--nothing more--a mere sketch, which Mr. Phillips can rub in, as he
calls it, in little more than a week. Your trees and hedges, and cows
and poultry, and bits of lake and brook, and rock and hill, at Barton
here, are a fortune to Mr. Phillips.”

The artist smiled and shook his head.

“Why, you Crœsus, you know it is true,” said Mr. Hammerton. “He will
soon be as rich as my dear brother is reputed to be, Miss Tallant; he
literally coins money does my friend Arthur; but what is better--and
if he were not here, I should be tempted to say more--he paints for
the love of his art, and he is as noble a fellow as ever sat before an
easel. There!”

The young nobleman seemed bent upon exalting the moral and pecuniary
worth of Mr. Phillips. He might have had an object to serve in placing
his friend’s merits and advantages before Mr. Tallant and his sister,
and he laid particular emphasis on “my friend Phillips,” or “my friend
Arthur,” and spoke of him with the familiarity of pure regard and
esteem.

“By-the-by,” said Mr. Hammerton after a pause, “let me explain my
unexpected visit to Mr. Tallant. Don’t go away, I beg, Miss Tallant.”

“I will return again before you leave, thank you,” said the lady in her
sweetest accents.

“I heard you were here, sir,” said Mr. Hammerton, resuming an
aristocratic dignity of manner, which he assumed with those who were
not his intimates (he had not met Mr. Tallant junior frequently), “and
thinking you might deem it necessary to give me a call, I preferred to
anticipate you.”

Mr. Tallant bowed, and twirled his moustache carelessly.

“Allow me to present you with a little token of our last meeting,” Mr.
Hammerton continued, handing Mr. Tallant a sealed envelope.

“Thanks; you are very good,” said the Iron Prince, dropping the note
into the side pocket of his loose morning coat.

“Will you not look at it, and see that it is quite right?”

“No, thank you; I have no fear about that. Shall I offer you a cigar?
The ladies will allow us to smoke on the lawn just outside the window.”

Mr. Tallant handed Mr. Hammerton his cigar-case.

“May I offer one to my friend?” said Mr. Hammerton, looking round for
Mr. Phillips, who had strolled into the drawing-room.

“By all means. Mr. Phillips, will you do me the pleasure of joining us
in a cigar?” said Mr. Tallant, raising his voice; at which the artist
returned to the library.

Just then Phœbe and Amy entered, and Mr. Hammerton expressed great
pleasure at seeing Miss Somerton.

Mr. Richard Tallant thought he saw in Amy’s face, as she returned Mr.
Hammerton’s graceful salutation, an expression of love and admiration;
but this might have originated out of what he had heard in the
summer-house, and he felt annoyed in spite of himself, and without
really knowing why.

“Shall we have our smoke?” he said, a little impatiently. “The ladies
will excuse us, and we can walk outside on the grass.”

“Presently, Mr. Tallant,” said the young nobleman, entering into a
conversation with Miss Tallant and Amy about a score of trifling
things.

“Don’t let us detain you, pray,” said Miss Tallant; and by-and-by Mr.
Tallant and Mr. Hammerton, with Mr. Phillips between them, sauntered
leisurely up and down the lawn, whilst Phœbe returned to the new books.

Amy sat down near her, with “In Memoriam” in her hand. The Laureate’s
sublime thoughts had long since been in her heart, but she was
accustomed to dwell upon this greatest of all his great works when her
feelings were more than usually agitated; and this morning sadness
and gladness were so commingled that she was almost beside herself
with a sense of doubt and fear and sorrow, and of trembling joy and
presentiments of dread and danger.

  “He past; a soul of nobler tone:
    My spirit loved and loves him yet,
    Like some poor girl whose heart is set
  On one whose rank exceeds her own.

  “He mixing with his proper sphere,
    She finds the baseness of her lot,
    Half jealous of she knows not what,
  And envying all that meet him there.

  “The little village looks forlorn;
    She sighs amid her narrow days,
    Moving about the household ways,
  In that dark house where she was born.

  “The foolish neighbours come and go,
    And tease her till the day draws by;
    At night she weeps ‘How vain am I!
  How should he love a thing so low?’”

Tears fell upon the page. Her inferior rank, her humble origin, made
her love seem a vain and selfish thing indeed. She sometimes despised
herself for permitting even the thought of it to have a place in
her heart. And yet Cophetua made the beggar-maid his queen. But how
beautiful she was!

Amy did not understand her own peculiar beauty, refined and toned as it
was by the kindness of her nature, the vigour of her intellect, and the
graces of her mind; or she might not have despaired of the love of the
next heir to the Earldom of Verner.

O, if he were but poor. If he had even been six or seven removes from
an earldom; but to set her mind upon one so high! It was madness, and
yet poor Amy could not choose but love; and Mr. Hammerton had been so
marked in his courtesy towards her whenever he had seen her at the
farm, or met her on his occasional visits to Barton Hall, that faint
whispers of hope would sometimes cheer her heart.

Before Mr. Hammerton left he expressed a desire to see the garden.
There were some famous flowers which he had heard Earl Verner’s
gardener speak of as rarities that he had seen at Barton Hall.

Miss Tallant volunteered to show Mr. Hammerton the garden, and insisted
that Amy should accompany them.

“We will all go,” said Mr. Tallant. “Come along, Mr. Phillips! you are
interested in these things; for my part, I know little about them.”

They saw the flowers and discussed their merits, and then, somehow or
other, Mr. Hammerton found himself engaged in a deep conversation with
Miss Tallant and Amy; and by-and-by he was alone with Miss Somerton,
and he was all graciousness and gentle words then.

Once she felt his breath warm upon her cheek, and once he pressed her
hand. She blushed, and the tears came into her eyes, why or wherefore
she could not tell. And then Lionel pressed her hand again, and said
what a delightful creature Miss Tallant was to leave him alone with her
dear friend.

He gathered a rose and playfully hung it in her hair, and then he asked
her if she remembered the poetic legend of the origin of the red rose.
“Roses were all white originally when first they bloomed in Eden.
Eve, when first she saw the beautiful flower, could not suppress her
admiration, and in her joy at its beauty she stooped down and imprinted
a kiss on its snowy bosom. The rose stole the scarlet tinge from her
velvet lip, and wears it yet. So goes the story; I cannot give you the
authority, but the tradition is poetic; is it not?”

Amy looked up and smiled, and Lionel knew that she loved him. The most
secret page of her story was before him, and he read it with pride and
satisfaction.

Lionel went on talking all kinds of loving trifles which in anyone
else’s mouth would have seemed ridiculous to Amy; but she could only
weep at them and feel a strange fluttering at her heart as she listened
to him and walked with him in the shadiest and most remote paths of the
Barton Hall gardens.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the evening Mr. Christopher Tallant returned from town, and
was greatly surprised to find his son at Barton Hall; and equally
astonished the next morning to find that he had risen for the morning
mail, and gone back to London.




                             CHAPTER XII.

                           BENEATH THE GOWN.


Paul Somerton had improved that friendship started at the Ashford Club,
and had latterly dropped the evening society of Thomas Dibble. He had
made the discovery in search of which Mr. Dibble had been useful to
him, and since then he had preferred working at the mine alone.

Somehow or other the lad had acquired a relish for the work in which
he was engaged. A desire to please his sister, whom he loved, had
been strengthened by the dislike he had conceived for Mr. Gibbs. Had
he known half as much of strange mysteries as the author of “Zanoni,”
he might have fancied that he was impelled by some secret sympathy or
antipathy over which he had no control. But Paul knew very little even
about the great novelist’s romantic books, much less of Victor Cousin,
Condillac and materialism, Jamblichus and Polinus, Swedenborg and
Behemen, the golden ass of Apuleius and Hamilton’s metaphysics; and all
he had ever heard of Puysegur and Mesmer was at a provincial lecture
on Mesmerism and Biology by a quack, who amused his audience immensely
with a couple of confederates.

So Paul never attempted to investigate the fascination which an
exposure of Mr. Gibbs had for him, coupled with a vague sort of desire
to save Mr. Richard Tallant and Mr. Hammerton from the machinations of
so consummate a scoundrel. The sequel, however, may appear as if some
secret power were at work to bring those two opposing forces, Paul
Somerton and Shuffleton Gibbs, in contact.

He had watched at the club-door for some nights before Mr. Hammerton
appeared again. He came at last, however, and Paul at once accosted
him.

It had occurred to Paul previously that he would endeavour to watch the
players until he openly detected Shuffleton’s double cards, and then
rush into the room and denounce him.

But this he thought would compromise the poor club-keeper’s position,
and was a little more showy and romantic than necessary. So Paul
accosted the Hon. Mr. Hammerton, and as he did so Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs
passed into the club, and noticed the incident.

Mr. Hammerton was impatient at first, but when Paul told him whom he
was, his curiosity was aroused, and Paul’s earnestness soon rivetted
his attention.

“Not a very creditable part to play, my young friend, that of spy
upon the conduct of your master and his friends, by-and-by,” said Mr.
Hammerton.

“If I do good thereby to my master?” said Paul, a little timidly, as
the nature of his employment struck him in the new light suggested by
Mr. Hammerton.

“I think you have overstepped the bounds of both duty and prudence,”
said Mr. Hammerton.

“You may change your opinion,” said Paul, more courageously. “I entered
upon the business in your interest as well as Mr. Tallant’s.”

“Oh, indeed!” said Mr. Hammerton; “that was very kind of you,
certainly. From whom did you receive your instructions?”

Paul did not reply; his pride was hurt, he had not expected such a
reception as this.

“Suppose I inform Mr. Tallant how you have occupied yourself during
these last few weeks?” said Mr. Hammerton; for _his_ pride and dignity
were hurt also, and he was offended at this interference with his
liberty, in doubt for the moment whether Paul was a tool in more
skilled hands.

“I shall watch no more, sir,” said Paul. “You may take your own course;
I have done my duty. You know how to test the truth of what I have told
you. Good-night, sir.”

Paul disappeared without another word, although Mr. Hammerton called
after him. He felt miserably disappointed as he went home, and
could not help feeling that there was something of the sneak in his
composition, after all.

Why had he persevered so in this wretched business? Why had he done so
much more than his sister had asked him to do? He would move no further
in it now.

After all his trouble, to be snubbed, and by the gentleman most to be
benefited! “Well, people should mind their own business,” he said to
himself. “I’ll mind mine in future.”

It would have been better for Paul Somerton had he resolved upon this
when first he arrived in London. It was hardly wise for his sister to
excite his curiosity to so high a pitch about the conduct of other
people. Both of them suffered for their indiscretion--suffered in more
ways than one. Amy’s object was, however, served in a measure; for the
dangerous career of young Hammerton was cut short on this eventful
night of Paul’s resolve to mind his own business in future, though it
would have been better for the honourable gentleman had the conclusion
of his gaming experiences been less demonstrative than it was.

When Paul left him, he joined the little party at the Ashford Club,
determined not to entertain suspicions which for the moment had been
strongly aroused.

This was the night when the pigeon was to be completely plucked. Clever
manipulators in this art do not seize upon their prey at a first, or a
second, or a third interview. They lure Signor Pigeon on by degrees.
They let him win in the first encounter, and in the second or third
vary the luck, exciting him at last, perchance, by a rather heavy
loss, which he is anxious to retrieve. Shuffleton Gibbs had worked Mr.
Hammerton to this point, and had been assisted to some extent by Mr.
Richard Tallant; but the latter gentleman had been the tool rather than
the confederate of his University companion.

University companion! It was this educational position which made
Gibbs tolerated in the society which he affected. He was a University
man, if he had not taken a degree. Something happened to disgrace him
a little at Christ Church, it is true; but there!--“it was only a bit
of wickedness.” He made love to a pastrycook’s daughter, and ran away
with her, or something of the sort, and had a row with a fellow-student
over cards. What was all this? Youthful indiscretion, an exuberance of
animal spirits. He was a gentleman by education, at all events; he had
worn a gown.

That would have been enough to have made him a man of consideration in
any provincial city in the empire, and it was a great passport even in
cosmopolitan London; but in the dear old cathedral city where Arthur
Phillips lived, what weight it would have given to Mr. Gibbs! “Of what
college?” says a simpering inquirer. “Christ Church,” is the reply, and
the man’s position is made. You had better be hanged than not have worn
a gown in some English cities.

And so the gown assisted to cover the cloven hoofs of Mr. Shuffleton
Gibbs, even in London; the gown had been sufficient for Richard
Tallant, though it had not been enough for his father, and it had
not shielded all the owner’s villanies; it had nevertheless worked
favourably with Mr. Hammerton, who had put down Shuffleton’s wild
college career to his dashing character, his natural wilfulness, and
his animal spirits.

But during that last evening when Signor Pigeon was being plucked, the
gown somehow fell aside, and Mr. Hammerton, made hot and suspicious by
the loss of more than his present fortune, and something on account of
his money in perspective, suddenly bounced out of his seat, picked up a
duplicate card, seized Gibbs by the collar, and called him “cheat” and
“black-leg.”

There was a terrible row, you may be sure. Gibbs, in the strong grip
of Mr. Hammerton, shrunk like a coward, as he was, despite his college
reputation as a “fast” man.

Clubmen and waiters thronged round the pair, and Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs’
conviction was complete; for, besides another duplicate turning up,
the cards were found to be “doctored” substitutes for those used at
the club. Fortunately for Richard Tallant, he had “cut out” of the
four who were playing an hour before this _contretemps_ occurred. His
conduct was not without some suspicion in the club; but his father’s
reputation, his own presumed wealth, and his generally open and
apparently honest outspoken sentiments, protected him from anything
beyond mere suspicion.

He neither attacked nor defended his friend Gibbs, but looked on
whilst several members of the Ashford conducted Mr. Gibbs to the
door and thrust him into the street. A confederate assisted in the
expulsion, and was loudest, after his colleague’s disappearance, in his
condemnation of all such scoundrels.

“A plague on all cowards, I say, and a vengeance, too.... A bad world,
I say! I would I were a weaver; I could sing psalms or anything.
A plague of all cowards, I say still.” Falstaff was not more
demonstrative in praise of virtue, and against cowardice, than this
wretched colleague of Gibbs’ in expressions of utter disgust for cheats
and black-legs. Mr. Richard Tallant was even bold enough to sneer at
the ranter, and advise him to communicate his sentiments to Shuffleton
personally.

Meanwhile, Mr. Gibbs, shaking himself for a moment like a dog after a
swim, quietly readjusted his crumpled collar, and deliberately pulled
on his unimpeachable lavender gloves.

If you could have seen his face, you would have noticed the thin lips
closely compressed, and the little eyes fixed and glaring. There were
no great signs of rage there; but an expression of disappointment--not
of despair by any means. He had been in difficulties before, and
was not wont to lose his coolness; but he had never had “cheat” and
“black-leg” thrown in his teeth until now, nor ever before trembled in
the grip of an adversary. He wondered now at his own cowardice, and
clenched his little gloved hand as he walked through St. James’s Park,
and nursed his wicked thoughts.

By-and-by he lit a cigar, and walked musingly along, looking up at the
moon. A reader for the daily press going homewards after his day’s
work, looked at him, and put him down for a sentimental swell, planning
a plot for a poem, or rehearsing some great scene for a new novel.

How clever we all are in reading character! Let us hope the poor
newspaper fag read his proofs better than he read Shuffleton Gibbs.




                             CHAPTER XIII.

                 DESCRIBES A GREAT FINANCIAL STORM AND
              EXHIBITS THOMAS DIBBLE IN A NEW CHARACTER.


It came steadily but surely, gently at first, like great storms come,
with a gradual lowering of the clouds and a gradual increase in the
wind. It began in a calm--a quiet, happy, pleasant calm--a calm that
may be typified by a man seated on the lawn at Barton, and smoking in
the shade, with sheep bleating at a distance.

It came out of a calm, we say--a delightful time of rising markets,
when the bulls of the Stock Exchange were in clover, and the bears at
fault. It began when most kinds of shares were at a premium; when all
sorts of companies were paying big dividends, and 5_l._ shares were
selling at 8_l._ and 10_l._; when everything was “looking up;” when
men bought to invest, and even bought one day to sell the next at a
profit. First, there was a whisper from the Continent which agitated
the financial atmosphere for a moment--the first breeze of the coming
storm. The bears sniffed it, but the bulls feared it not; and shares
for a moment wavered, only to recover and make the calm seem all the
more assuring. Then a whisper came from the New World, and there was an
Atlantic roughness about it at which the bears opened their nostrils
and sniffed with a hungry relish. The bulls wavered still in doubt, and
then in a sudden darkness the big clouds gathered, and the wind blew a
hurricane--blew tempestuously from the shores of France, with tributary
winds from Austria and Prussia, and local winds from St. Stephen’s.
Then the bears growled and frisked and bit and bellowed, and the
bulls fought hard and butted with their horns; but the bears tore and
lacerated them: for the financial storm had come, and there was panic
everywhere. The Genii of Finance no longer in the sun looked hideous
and fearful, and the magicians who had hitherto controlled them had
lost their power, because the world had faith in them no longer. The
story is not new; it crops up afresh once in about every eight or ten
years.

The newspapers did not describe the storm as we have described it. They
conveyed the intelligence in technical terms which made it hard and
biting:--“Orientals are now at 1¹⁄₄ to 1¹⁄₈ dis.; Credits, 1 to ⁷⁄₈;
Unity shares have declined to 8 to 7¹⁄₂ dis.; Imperials have gone to
5¹⁄₈ to 4³⁄₈ dis.; Discount Company, ³⁄₈ to ¹⁄₄ dis.; Overton, Baker
and Co.’s Bank, ⁷⁄₈ to ³⁄₄ dis. The railway market continues dull,
with a downward tendency; there is a further reduction of ¹⁄₄ to ¹⁄₂
per cent. in Great Western, South Eastern, Great Eastern, and Great
Northerns.

“Another serious failure is reported from Liverpool, and the directors
of the Bank of England have to-day raised the minimum rate of discount
from 6 to 7 per cent.”

This was the fragmentary way in which the newspapers indicated the
financial storm, and the figures started up in the night, like fiends,
haunting the pillows of many a man, in town and in country, who had
been induced to “speculate” in a few finance and other shares “just to
make a little money”--men who had never touched shares before, and did
not even know the “beastly” title affixed to professional buyers and
sellers on the Stock Exchange. To them a bull meant an animal that was
dangerous in the fields, and grand at agricultural shows; and a bear
was an ugly brute that climbed up a pole at the Zoological Gardens.
William Jones the grocer and Timothy Robinson the draper, who had been
induced to buy a few Overtons, or Orientals, at 3 premium, in the hope
of selling at 5 or 6 premium before the half-yearly meeting, were
nothing more than bulls, nevertheless, in Stock Exchange phraseology,
and only to become despondent and miserable bears at 5 or 10 discount.

“Been bulling the market, Mithter Dibble? Pray explain yourself, and
don’t offend a woman’s thenthibilities by such terms as that,” said
Mrs. Thomas Dibble, leaning back in her chair, and vainly endeavouring
to thread a needle.

“Bulling means selling, my love,” said Thomas, trembling; “selling
shares without having them, you see, and----”

“Mithter Dibble, it isn’t as I wish to be severe on you, but I begin to
suspect you are drunk, thir!----drunk, drunk, drunk,” said Mrs. Dibble,
laying down her needle in despair, and rapping the table with her
thimble.

“You may call I what you likes,” said Dibble, with a tremendous effort
to be bold; “but I’m sober enough. I wishes I were drunk.”

“Good heaventh! why, whath come to the man? How dare you wish you were
drunk, thir--how dare you, thir!”

“Dare? I tell you, Maria, I’m a miserable bull, a dead-beat bull, as
ever was,” said Dibble, weeping.

“You’re a beast, if that’s what you mean,” said Mrs. Dibble, convinced
that her Thomas was intoxicated.

But Dibble was only suffering from the panic. He had been tempted by
the financial sunshine--and Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs--and had bought the
shares of a company that had made a call and failed, and of another
whose shares had fallen from 10_l._ a share to 5_l._ worse than
nothing. It had been brought about in this wise: Mr. Gibbs was indebted
to Mr. Dibble for many little acts of courtesy and attention, as a
visitor to Mr. Richard Tallant at the Iron Company’s offices. Thomas
had always a chair and a polite submissive word for Mr. Gibbs, and so
one day that gentleman, arguing correctly that Mr. Dibble must have
saved a few hundred pounds, kindly showed that confiding porter how to
make a few hundreds more; and Mr. Thomas Dibble, in the simplicity of
his nature, became a bull, without the knowledge of his better-half.
Whispers of the panic had come into the big company’s offices where
Thomas portered it, and at last he began to understand that his five
hundred pounds were tossed about in the storm, and liable to be sunk
and lost for ever; and on the day in question, when Thomas went home
and confessed that he was a bull in a panic, and other similarly insane
things, Mr. Gibbs had explained to him his position, and advised him to
consider his money lost for the present, but consoling him with stories
of the immense losses which other people had suffered.

“Mr. Gibbs advised me to do it,” said Dibble.

“Do what, you fool?” shouted Mrs. Dibble, who lost all patience with
him.

“Speckerlate with the five hundred pounds which we had at the bank,”
said Thomas.

“We had--_we_ had, Mithther Dibble: it wath my own money, Thomath, and
you have never dared to touch it?” said Mrs. D., her face white and her
eyes flashing.

“I touched it to make a thousand of it, Maria; that were my full
intention.”

“Oh, you monthter! Oh, Dibble, Dibble! Oh, Thomath, Thomath! I thee it
all--you have lost the money!”

“Ise afraid on it, that I be,” said Dibble. “The bull sells, and the
bear buys. ‘If you bear the market now,’ Mr. Gibbs says, ‘you may get
right;’ but, oh Lord! oh dear, Maria! Ise quite lost! What be I to do?
what be I to do?”

Poor Dibble lifted up his arms, and looked appealingly towards his
furious wife, who sunk back in her chair with a scream for water. The
wretched bull, glad of any diversion from the main point, rushed to
his wife’s assistance. She had really fainted, this strong-minded Mrs.
Dibble, who could think for everybody, and conduct the government of
the country if necessary.

She had often said that had she been a man she would have been in
Parliament; and not only in Parliament, but a cabinet minister. There
was nothing too high for the giant intellect of this domineering wife
of poor Thomas Dibble; and yet here she lay like a dead thing, with her
cap on the floor, her arms lying helplessly by her side, and Dibble
bathing her face, at the loss of five hundred pounds. But it was the
insubordination of Dibble which affected her more than the loss of
the money, and when she came to herself again, wet and soddened, she
declared she would never forgive him.

“Never, Thomath, tho don’t athk it; ith not ath I bear malithe, nor
am mean, but for a woman who hath loved like me, and refuthed the
greatetht offerth from noblemen--I say, for one who gave her heart up
ath I did, it ith not in nature to forgive thuch detheption as yourth,
Thomath Dibble. How true it ith, ath it ith written, that the heart of
man ith dethperately wicked.”

And Mrs. Dibble went to bed with her woes, locked her door, and left
the wretched Thomas to bemoan his unhappy lot in darkness and in the
kitchen, where he fell asleep by-and-by, and dreamed that he was a
bull being devoured by a horde of bears; but he awoke, and found that
he was only in danger of being eaten by crickets and beetles, which
held great meetings on the Dibbleonian hearth-stone every night. They
were no doubt greatly astonished to find poor Thomas lying there all
his length; for their investigation of him was very minute, much more
so than Thomas liked, who jumped upon his feet, and roared and kicked
until Mrs. Dibble, certain of thieves and murder, opened the window,
and cried “Fire!” and then, being a strong-minded woman, jumped into
bed, and covered her head with the bed-clothes.

Happily, Paul Somerton came home just in time to put matters right, and
induce Mrs. Dibble to admit Thomas to her room, at least for her own
protection. Poor Dibble said next day he would rather have slept with
the beetles; he was sure he should have been happier in the kitchen,
after all.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile the storm in the City was raging, and spreading far away
to all points of the compass. Though the moon shone forth calmly, on
Cornhill and Lombard-street, on Threadneedle-street and on the Stock
Exchange, through all the night the storm raged in men’s hearts; it
tossed men and women on their beds, and shook giants of finance where
they lay sleepless and afeared: it tore along the railways, sealed
up in letters, which carried the tempest to Liverpool, Manchester,
Sheffield, Bristol, Birmingham, and even to the cathedral city where
Mr. Phillips resided. They were like so many Pandora’s boxes, these
letters from the City the next morning, letting out on being opened
evils without end. Despair and ruin were in many of them, and all the
country was agitated with fear. If an invading host had been sailing
up the Thames, the consternation would not have been so great; for the
people could have gone forth and done battle with the foe. But there
is no fighting a financial storm,--no contending with Stock Exchange
terrors.

After the arrival of Pandora’s letters, there went forth into the
country flights of telegrams,--electric pigeons which settled in
crowds with their missives in all the towns of England, and the storm
increased tenfold with the excitement of the electric current.

During the morning hundreds of bulls put on bear’s clothing, and the
shares of Overton, Baker, & Co., began to fall; and in the afternoon
the leading discount-house in the country gave way to the pressure: and
then fresh flights of electric pigeons went forth into the towns that
Overton, Baker, & Co., had failed for ten millions of money.

You may fancy that this panic bears a strong likeness to the one which
has only recently occurred. Panics are closely akin, and therefore much
alike. If the crash of 1866 enables you the better to realise that
which forms part of the present history, so much the better. Thomas
Dibble will never forget in which panic he lost his wife’s five hundred
pounds, and how he suffered by his mad efforts to replace the money.




                             CHAPTER XIV.

                       ARTHUR PHILLIPS AT WORK.


He sat near the trunk of an oak-tree, and a brook made murmuring music
amongst the gnarled and grey and knotty old roots. There were big
burdock-leaves at his feet, trailing brambles full of luscious fruit,
and thick brown and yellow grasses.

Beneath the branches of the tree, on one side, there was a peep of
distant tender hills, with a foreground of foliage just tinted with
autumnal touches of red and yellow. He sat in the shadow of a clump of
grand old Severnshire elms, and on his right at some distance a number
of farm labourers were stacking wheat.

It was a bright, sunny afternoon in the latter part of August, and
the sun played amongst the leaves of the old oak-tree, keeping the
artist’s eye and hand rapidly at work. And never had Arthur Phillips
watched the sunny gleams with more intense interest. A tramp with his
slovenly wife, wandering out of the footpath to find a cool shelter
for rest, stood to look at the artist for a moment; and a couple of
school-boys, who had been fishing for minnows in the adjacent brook,
sat down quietly in the grass, and lazily watched the glowing canvas.

It would have made a pretty picture this, of the artist and his
spectators. But Phillips was soon alone again; he was too severe and
earnest for the school-boys. A squirrel ventured to peep at him from
a branch in the oak-tree, and a couple of mice whisked by him, and
squeaked beneath the leaves of the broad burdock. A stupid moth lit
upon the wet stump of his painted tree and spoiled its pretty wings.

How quiet, how peaceful it was, how thoroughly the country! By-and-by
Arthur leaned back on his camp-stool and thought so; and his heart
was grateful for the running brook, the whispering trees, the broad
expanse of distant hills and meadows, and above all for the sympathy
which he possessed in his own nature for the beautiful and sublime. The
sun disappeared behind a cloud for a few minutes, leaving the oak-tree
almost in its own natural colour, and showing the artist’s successful
touches. However far short of the reality, the canvas held some
wonderful sunny effects: the leaves of the grand old tree were fairly
illuminated, as if gleams of sunshine had gone through them, indicating
almost the fibres of the lower branches.

No man knew how far art is below nature; no painter felt more the
inferiority of a picture when compared with the ever-changing and
always beautiful reality: but Arthur Phillips knew when he had achieved
something beyond the ordinary work, and he was pleased that his labour
on this occasion had been successful; for Arthur was now actually
painting for money. He had long since ceased to accept commissions,
except for subjects of his own selection, and had painted more for
the love of his art than for what his art would bring. The drudgery of
painting had been got over long ago: the years of patient industry and
unrewarded toil; the pictures returned from the Academy unhung; the
adverse criticism when at last they were hung: all this had long since
been at an end, and Arthur Phillips left to select his subjects and
name his own price for his pictures.

But on this bright day in August the artist sat once more hard at work,
painting for money, painting for subsistence. For not only had he
been induced to invest largely in Overton, Baker, & Co., but he had a
deposit account at their local branch in his native city of Severntown,
and the branch had succumbed to the same monetary pressure which had
swamped the head concern. And Arthur Phillips was nearly penniless.

There were many others in Severntown almost in the same condition, and
from the same cause. So Arthur, instead of making himself wretched and
miserable, packed up his box of colours, and went out to finish that
bit of local study upon which we find him engaged, prior to locking
himself up in his study for months of hard work.

“I thought I should find you at last, old boy,” said Mr. Hammerton,
putting his hand familiarly on Arthur’s shoulders. “By the aid of your
man, that faithful old grinder of colours and cleaner of pallettes, I
traced you to the cross-roads; there I was at fault, and almost gave
you up. I believe my old mare scented you out at last.”

“Then give my best thanks to the old mare, for I am glad to see you,”
said Arthur.

“By Jove, that’s pretty! what a glorious bit of colour! Have you
finished?”

“Yes; I think so.”

“Then pack up--here, I’ll help you--and let us have a quiet chat. Your
man said he was to meet you here in about an hour, to carry the things
home.”

“Yes,” said Arthur; “but I have finished. I was just thinking of
smoking a quiet pipe whilst the sun goes down.”

“Bravo! we’ll mingle our smoke together, friend Arthur,” said
Hammerton; adding, a little more seriously, “and our tears, too, by
Jove! It’s the last time we shall see each other for a long time, I
guess.”

“Indeed! Why?” said Arthur, turning the key in his colour-box.

“I’m off to foreign lands, Arthur--

  ‘Anywhere, anywhere, out of the world.’”

“Are you serious, Lionel?”

“I was never more so. I have had a few angry words with my brother; and
though he’s a good fellow, and is sorry for what he has said, I must go
away for a time.”

Arthur looked up inquiringly.

“The fact is, I have been a great fool; I have lost a lot of money
lately. I don’t know how it was, but through young Tallant I was
induced to visit the Ashford Club. You have not heard, then, of the row
at that quiet, but now notorious, institution?”

“No; I never heard of the Ashford before.”

“Why, it was in all the papers, man,--about a fellow cheating, and
being put out into the street. My name was mentioned. You shall see
the paper. Well, all that naturally annoyed my brother; but, to clinch
matters, I was advised to buy a lot of Overton and Baker’s shares, to
put myself right, and I have gone all to the bad. Overton and Baker’s
have failed, and I not only lose the value of the shares, but there
is a liability, and a large one, besides. I suppose you heard of the
failure?”

“Yes. I had a large deposit with them at Severntown,” said Arthur.

“You had? By Jove! I’m sorry for that. And you are hit then, too; much,
Arthur?”

“Yes, considerably. I must work hard, and make it up again.”

“I’m awfully sorry. But there, cheer up, old boy; there is no good in
worrying about it, I suppose.”

“No,” said Arthur, quietly. “And where are you going, Lionel?”

“To join my regiment at Bombay; I am to be gazetted next week. I’m not
going in bad disgrace, Arthur--don’t think that; but my brother, the
Earl, twitted me with my folly and my expenditure, you know, and, no
doubt, he was right. I have been a fool. A few years in the army will
do a fellow good. There is no chance of war; that’s unfortunate.”

They chatted and smoked until Arthur’s man came and carried the
artist’s picture and materials away, and then they strolled together
towards a farm where Lionel had put up his horse, and where Arthur had
arranged to sleep.

In the farmer’s clean-sanded parlour, Lionel told Arthur the story of
his losses, not forgetting the incident of his interview with Paul
Somerton. This, it seemed, had annoyed Lionel as much as anything
in the whole of the unfortunate affair. He was satisfied that Miss
Somerton had set her brother to watch him.

“I could never have supposed that a girl could have behaved so
absurdly. You may rely upon it, Arthur, that pretty bailiff’s daughter
had set her mind on marrying me, and she was anxious that I should not
get through my patrimony without her assistance, I suppose. Imagine the
absurdity of the thing! The girl fancies I am in love with her.”

“You have paid her great attention,” said Arthur.

“Who doesn’t pay a pretty girl great attention, whoever she may be?”
said Lionel.

“You were in raptures with her picture--not out of compliment to the
artist, but to the pretty face--the aristocratic head,” said Arthur,
significantly.

“Ah, you have anticipated me: I shall want that picture,” said Lionel,
with assumed indifference; “but imagine a bailiff’s daughter setting
her heart upon the next heir to the earldom of Verner, and making her
brother a spy upon him lest he should lose too much money at cards. By
Jove, Arthur, it was an impudent thing to do.”

“Did she do it?”

“Did she? Of course she did. Why, the impudent young blackguard told me
who he was, as if he had some claim upon me.”

“And so he had, if he was warning you against conspirators.”

“Look at it in that light, perhaps he had; but what about the other
view?”

“She is a fine, handsome girl, Miss Somerton, and accomplished; she’s
fit for the wife of a prince,” said Arthur, in his quiet, emphatic
manner.

“Why, what radicalism you are talking! Marry a bailiff’s daughter to a
prince?”

“A prince might be proud of such a wife as Amy Somerton. You have
not seen so much of her as I have, and you may rely upon it you have
wronged her.”

“She’s an impudent, meddling baggage, Arthur--a presumptuous, designing
woman,” said Lionel, with an angry flash of the eye.

“I don’t think so, indeed,” said Arthur.

“I am sure; therefore we will not discuss the point further. Miss
Tallant would be a better theme.”

But Arthur Phillips would not talk about Phœbe: and so at last they
parted, Lionel shaking Arthur by the hand, and telling him that
whatever might come to pass, he should never forget the many happy
hours they had passed together, and that he should always treasure his
friendship. Arthur was not behindhand in reciprocating Lionel’s kind
feelings and expressions, and he stood at the farmer’s gate and watched
his aristocratic friend until he had ridden out of sight.

  “Now came still evening on, and twilight grey
  Had in her sober livery all things clad.”

With all his love of nature, with all his courage, Arthur Phillips
felt sadly lonely now, as he stood listening to the last sound of the
clatter of Lionel’s horse’s hoofs on the white, hard road.

It seemed as if all things that he loved faded out, or were
unattainable. He had formed a warm attachment for Lionel Hammerton,
and he would miss his cheery voice in the cathedral close at
Severntown. Arthur, indeed, had no other familiar friend. He had
followed his art with such singleness of purpose, that his life had
been comparatively solitary, and he knew little or nothing of the world
and its doings; hence his likes and dislikes were intensified.

For the last two or three years his love for Phœbe Tallant had grown up
into a passion which he could not control, and it was only this which
disturbed the peaceful course of his life. He had never thought of
disclosing his feelings to her. It had been a great relief to him to
tell Lionel Hammerton, and more particularly when he had for a moment
feared that he had a rival in his friend. Not that Arthur, perhaps,
ought to have looked upon any one as a rival, when marriage could
hardly be said to have entered his thoughts. To be near his love, to
see her often, to speak to her, to dwell on her kind words, that was
enough for Arthur. His ambition so far had soared no higher. How
could he, a poor, ill-shaped little fellow, with his solitary life,
ask a fair, bright thing like Phœbe Tallant to throw in her lot with
his--with his, the paid tutor?

No, poor Arthur! he had never arrived at such a daring pitch of passion
and presumption, even when he had a large balance at his bankers,
with which to meet, in some fashion, the monetary consideration of
the wealthy father. If he had known more of the world he might have
ventured to make this last cast of the die; but a quiet, retiring,
modest, susceptible nature like Arthur’s, wont to brood over all
sorts of imaginary nothings, wont to dream and set his thoughts upon
the quiet river, to be wafted out far away beyond the world, it was
impossible for him to tell Mr. Tallant that he had fallen in love with
his daughter.

Once or twice he had thought there was something mean in his position
at Barton Hall; that he had taken a mean advantage of his position as
tutor to fall in love with his pupil. This idea had taken such fast
possession of him at one time that he had almost determined to leave
the country; but his will was not strong enough to shut out Phœbe from
his sight. He was a prisoner to her charms, and content to remain so.
How his excitement had blurted out his captivity to Lionel Hammerton
was something that he could hardly understand himself; but he was glad
that he had no longer to carry the secret about alone: it was like a
divided responsibility now that Lionel knew it.

“And so I am to begin again,” he thought. “Well so be it; maybe this
is but a kind act of mercy to give me more to think about. I have been
lazy; I will paint a grand picture.”




                              CHAPTER XV.

               RETURNS TO AVONWORTH VALLEY, AND GLANCES
                      AT MRS. SOMERTON’S SECRET.


The trees were covered with a hundred shades of brown and red and
yellow. A pleasant September breeze wandered about, carrying with it
here and there the report of the sportsman’s gun. Flocks of sheep
cropped the sweet herbage, and crowds of happy-looking gleaners
gathered the stray ears of wheat which Mr. Somerton had left in the
corn-fields.

There had been an abundant harvest, and the corn was well and
successfully garnered. The big yellow stacks peered out amongst the
trees round about the Hall farm, and Luke Somerton sat cozily smoking
his after-dinner pipe.

Peace and plenty was the prevailing characteristic of the place, and
Luke Somerton was on particularly good terms, at the moment, with
himself and all the world.

“I wonder how Paul is getting on,” he said, musingly, just as his wife
had folded up the table-cloth and instructed her servant to “get those
dinner-things washed up at once.”

“Oh, he’ll get on well enough,” said Mrs. Somerton, “if his sister
doesn’t spoil him with her pack of silly letters. One would think they
had nothing in the world to do but to write letters to each other.”

“Well, there’s no harm in their writing to each other; it may keep Paul
out of mischief.”

“He is getting very little money for his age; he ought to have enough
to keep him without assistance from us by this time. It’s little we
save.”

“You think too much about saving money, Sarah. There are lots of things
in life better than money.”

“You may say what you please, Luke, the great object of life should
be to make money and get position. If one cannot gain it oneself, we
should try to get it through our children,” said Mrs. Somerton, taking
up her knitting and sitting by the window.

A stranger wandering about the quiet, peaceful, happy-looking country
of which we speak in the opening of this chapter, would assuredly not
have looked for the expression of such worldly views by the mistress of
that comfortable-looking house amongst the trees. The thought passed
over the farmer’s mind, but so lightly that he did not attempt to give
expression to it, though his reply bordered slightly upon it.

“And what do you call position, Sarah? Has it anything to do with
happiness?” asked Luke.

“Position! Why, to be above other people. To be looked up to instead
of being looked down upon. To have servants of one’s own, and not be
servants ourselves.”

“That is, your husband should be something more than a farm-bailiff,
or a farmer even on his own account. The old story; it’s no use, Sarah,
we can’t alter our lot. It seems to me that a clear conscience, and
owing nobody a penny, is about the best position in the world, after
all, whatever your station in life.”

“I know that is your opinion, Luke, and there’s something in it, for
those who like to jog through the world and be nothing to nobody. We
have money now, and why can’t we have a farm of our own, at least?”

“Oh, we’ve had enough of farming on our own account, Sarah. These are
not the days for farmers with small incomes. It doesn’t suit me to be
peddling about in the old style of farming. I have gone in for the
science of the thing, and I must have the best machinery to work with;
and you want a big holding for that and lots of capital besides. We are
much better off as it is. Mr. Tallant is rich, and, although he gets
now a fair return for his money, he’s sunk a lot in this estate.”

“And what for? That young Tallant will soon get through it all.”

“Stop until he inherits.”

“Ah, there will be changes here whenever the old man goes. Whatever
will become of Phœbe? I shall take it upon myself to speak to him about
that young lady.”

“I should think you’ll do nothing of the sort.”

“Why not? I say it is a burning shame to keep her mewed up here. She
would pick up a duke, at least, in London; and, as sure as fate, that
little painter fellow will get her if she stays at Barton much longer.”

“You seem to be quite insane upon this subject, Sarah.”

“Oh yes, of course. Everything that _you_ can’t see through is absurd;
it always was so, Luke. When you have got as far as the end of your
nose there is an end to your prospect, unless you are thinking about
what crop should follow wheat or barley.”

“Now, then; get into a passion. You said you would talk quietly if I
would stay.”

“I am not in a passion--nothing of the kind,” said Mrs. S., knitting at
double-quick speed.

“Very well, then, mind you don’t get into a passion,” said Luke,
smiling.

“Phœbe Tallant was made to shine in society, and to marry well; and it
is horrible to see wealth and power going out of a young girl’s grasp
just because nobody puts her anywhere near the prize.”

“Happiness never seems to form part of your philosophy, Sarah.”

“Wealth and power, Luke--isn’t that happiness? To wear real diamonds,
and heaps of them; to drive in the parks; to be presented at court; to
make other women envy you. Happiness! Talk of clear consciences and all
that stuff, to set a room full of women hating you for your wealth and
beauty is bliss--joy above everything!”

Luke took his pipe from his mouth and gazed in astonishment at his
wife, who had ceased knitting, and was looking out beyond where he
sat,--but not at the quiet rural picture spread out before her. She was
simply looking at her own thoughts.

“Women, Luke, are devils. To men they are bad enough, but they
treat each other like fiends: they are mean to an extent beyond all
imagination; they hate each other mortally; and a pretty woman is a
mark for all their spite and slander. But she takes it out; she has her
revenge; she stings them like an adder.”

“You are a strange woman, Sarah; but you say a great deal more than you
believe,” said Luke.

“Do I? I believe women capable of anything. But men deserve to be
deceived by them, because the first of the race was a sneak and a
coward. ‘The woman tempted me, and I did eat.’”

Mrs. Somerton gave a contemptuous toss of her head, and went on with
her knitting.

“What a pity you didn’t marry some great gun who could have given you
your full swing of power and wealth. You were a fine showy woman when
I married you, Sarah; and hang me if you wouldn’t eclipse some of the
young ones now. What a blessing it would be if you hadn’t such a bitter
tongue.”

Luke seemed to be turning this over in his mind, and contemplating it.
He spoke half admiringly, half in regret.

“Ah, Luke, I dare say you think I am a fiend like the rest of my sex,
and I feel like one at times; but if my time had to come over again, I
should not alter my choice. There are some things that I’ve done which
I would undo if I could, but not that, not that, Luke.”

“Come, Sarah, that does me good,” said Luke, going up to her, and
putting his hand on her shoulders. “I have often thought we were an
ill-assorted couple, and you’ve said many an unkind thing; but you have
been a good wife to me after all, always done your duty--ay, and more;
and I am sure your heart’s in the right place.”

Mrs. Somerton looked up at her husband with a disturbed expression of
face. Her heart was in the right place; but her life was blighted by
one act of wicked deceit, and she had struggled ever since to justify
it to her conscience.

“There, you may go now, Luke. You don’t believe I am so bad as I seem?”

“You’re a good soul; try and drop all that nonsense about position, and
we shall be a regular Darby and Joan in our old age.”

Luke kissed her on the forehead and went out; and the wife continued
her knitting.

There were some things that she would undo if she could! The years
of secret hopes and fears, and doubts and misery, revealed in this
expression, were not even dreamed of by Luke Somerton. She had schemed,
and plotted, and built castles in the future, and carried about with
her a big, burning secret, and it had lately begun to dawn upon her
that her designs would be frustrated.

There may be far-seeing readers of this book who have already plucked
out the heart of Mrs. Somerton’s mystery. We have made no great effort
to conceal it from this piercing foresight. It is no new thing that
we have invented. Our story will not be injured by your knowing Mrs.
Somerton’s secret from the beginning, neither will it be particularly
enhanced by delaying the disclosure of the great plot of her married
life.

But there are other things crowding upon my attention, and we must
leave Mrs. Somerton at present without further explanation, to chafe
against the bars of her own self-made prison-house.




                             CHAPTER XVI.

                 MAY BE SAID TO INAUGURATE A SERIES OF
                  IMPORTANT CHANGES IN THE LIVES OF
               SEVERAL NOTABLE PERSONS IN THIS HISTORY.


The financial storm had been but little felt, you see, at Barton Hall,
or Mr. and Mrs. Somerton would no doubt have said something about it in
the conversation which is set down in the previous chapter.

Phœbe Tallant and her friend, Miss Somerton, had read of it in the
daily papers, which arrived in a special parcel from Smith & Sons
every day at the nearest railway station, where a groom was in waiting
for them. But Phœbe and Amy knew little or nothing about panics. It
was to them very much like what it was to the boy,--“something in the
City.” Miss Tallant’s clever governess, however, knew a great deal
about a Panic, which she seemed to stroke and pat on the back in her
intellectual superiority.

They little knew how seriously such a storm might affect the master
of Barton Hall. It had already demolished more than one or two
establishments of nearly equal importance; but Mr. Tallant was
particularly strong in the back, as they say in the City, and it was
well for him that such was the case, as was speedily exemplified soon
after the first shock of the panic had vibrated throughout the country.

On the very day after the clever governess’s description of a panic,
the half-yearly meeting of the Eastern Banking Company (of which Mr.
Tallant was chairman, and his son a director) was held at the London
Tavern.

At about two o’clock quite a little crowd of anxious-looking people
ascended the stone staircase, and entered that long room with the misty
looking pictures in it and the great chandelier.

Some of the men were talking in loud whispers about the losses of the
company and its evident mismanagement. There appeared to be a general
feeling prevailing that it would be an awkward day for the directors.
But this was no novelty at that time for directors of many other
concerns. Gentlemen who had been working for years up to directorships,
and some of whom had thought it necessary to obtain seats in the House
of Commons, with a leading idea in this direction, now began to find
that there were two sides to the directoral picture.

The time had been when a gentleman could materially augment his income
by having a seat at various boards of management; the time had been
when he not only got thereby a first-rate investment for the nominal
sum which gave him the qualification for certain directorates, but
when his social and commercial position were largely exalted by these
appointments. But directors at this period, with a commercial panic in
the City and throughout the kingdom, began to find their seats full
of thorns, and pins, and needles, and everything but curled hair and
feathers.

Shareholders in almost every shaky concern were down upon the
directors, and in many instances very properly so; for gentlemen
of repute, honourable men hitherto, had been weak enough to append
their names to prospectuses and statements which they knew little
or nothing about; and in some cases this was knavishly and cruelly
done,--knavishly and cruelly, because honest and industrious people
were induced to invest hard-earned savings in rotten schemes made to
look safe by the names of the gentlemen who figured as directors.
Sir This, and the Hon. the Other, Lord That, and Mr. This, M.P. for
so-and-so, did not scruple to lend their names to designing villains
who plundered the public behind these swellmarks, and in more than one
case Sir This and Mr. That did not scruple to go shares in the booty.

So you see the times were rather out of joint for directorships, and
many eminent City and country gentlemen would have been rejoiced could
they all at once have quietly retired from their several boards of
management without inquiry or explanation. Mr. Richard Tallant could
have told you of several safes where shares and scrip had been lately
locked away by strong-backed men with a firm resolution not to look
into those safes for many months to come. Some of these shares had been
bought at heavy premiums, and now all that remained were the frightful
responsibilities which attached to them. But there always had been
panics, people said, and there always would be; and there always have
been financial wreckers and sharpers to take advantage of monetary
storms, and will be until the end.

The half-yearly report stated that a loss of 100,000_l._ had fallen
upon the Bombay branch; but this was by no means the worst feature in
the affair, according to the views of the shareholders. Their shares,
100_l._ paid up, were quoted on the Stock Exchange at 5_l._ 10_s._

The chairman explained that there was no _bonâ fide_ reason for this,
the bank being not only solvent, but having 150,000_l._ to the good,
and better advices were expected from India.

Mr. Tallant’s was a long, clear, and honest statement, but it did not
allay the storm of abuse which had been prepared for the directory.

One speaker called for the resignation of the chairman, and was
applauded; another condemned the directory as a body, called upon them
all to resign; another fell foul of the auditors; another said the
managers of the branches were evidently a set of incompetent men, put
in by favouritism.

By-and-by the first speaker, a City man of repute, and famous amongst
companies as a financial orator, alluded to the fall in their
shares, and attributed the depreciation to the conduct of one of the
shareholders.

“Yes, gentlemen,” he said, “one of our own firm,--one of our partners
in this great concern,--has not only been the chief means of running
the shares down, but he has profited by it; he has sold shares which
do not exist, and bought those which timid people have thrown upon the
market; he has borrowed shares for the purpose of depreciation, and----”

The speaker was interrupted for a moment by cries of “Name! name!” but
he was an orator, and he had more to say before he had worked up his
theme to the grand climax of naming the victim, whom he was pinning
down with his long rhetorical lance.

“Gentlemen, this speculator--to call him by a mild name--is one of a
very small but dangerous set of men, who have been engaged in rigging
the market and damaging great and flourishing concerns--like wreckers,
putting out false lights, and then plundering the unhappy mariners.”

Cries of “Shame!” and “Name!” and “Swindler!” interrupted the speaker,
who waved his hand for silence.

“I had hoped to have seen this gentleman here to-day; he ought to have
been amongst us; I gave him notice that _I_ should be here.”

This elicited a cry of “Bravo!” and then the chairman rose to deprecate
personalities. He feared the honorable proprietor was losing his
discretion by excitement.

“Not so, Mr. Chairman,” replied the honorable proprietor. “I am not
speaking on the spur of the moment: my words are not born of mere
excitement, sir. I have thought much and deeply about the remarks I am
now making; nay more, I have taken advice upon them--they have gone
through the legal crucible. (Cheers, “Bravo!” and confusion.) It is
exceedingly hurtful to my own feelings to bring so painful a subject
before this meeting, but I am prepared to sacrifice self, upon an
occasion of this kind, to public duty.”

“Hear, hear!” said several shareholders, whilst others murmured “Quite
right.”

“I have ample proof of the charge which I am making; and shall I not
for the credit and honour and safety of the trading community of this
great city, in a time of such financial danger, unmask the dastard
before the eyes of the world?”

“Yes, yes!” and “Name! name!” cried a hundred voices; whilst a pair of
stentorian lungs shouted, from the gallery at the extreme end of the
room, “Why the deuce don’t you do it?”

In the midst of the hubbub a grave, pale-faced gentleman rose and said
this kind of discussion had gone far enough. He wanted to know the
exact position of the bank.

“Hear, hear!” shouted several shareholders close by; whilst others
could not help laughing at this bit of clerical impracticability,
seeing that the report stated the position of the bank, and the
chairman’s address had been furthermore elucidatory.

The chairman rose to order, and was greeted with cries of “Sit down!”
“Don’t interfere!” “Let us have the name!”

Meanwhile the financial orator stood, paper in hand, calmly
contemplating the scene, and half-a-dozen other persons rose to speak,
including the poor parson, who had been induced to invest all his
money in this bank, chiefly on account of its classical connection with
the East.

“I insist upon knowing the position of the bank,” said the reverend
gentleman, but his earnestness only raised a loud laugh.

“I fail to see the humorous side of my question,” said the poor man,
thinking of his wife and four little ones at the small rectory in
Yorkshire. “Is this bank solvent, or is it not? Is it going to break?
What is its position?”

Laughter, cheers, and cries of “Bosh!” and “Go on with the meeting!”
soon induced the poor rector to sit down, and then the financial
orator said he would resume the case at the point where he had been
interrupted.

“Name! name!” the shareholders cried, and several directors at length
grew sufficiently excited to join in the chorus; but the financial
orator begged to be permitted to explain the whole case before
complying with the general request; and whilst he is gradually “piling
up the agony,” and drifting into his telling peroration, we propose to
conduct you to an adjacent police court, where another extraordinary
scene is being enacted.

We can return and pick up the “name” which the honorable proprietor has
been asked for so frequently.




                             CHAPTER XVII.

                 CHIEFLY CONCERNS THE FORTUNES OF PAUL
                               SOMERTON.


Whilst the honorable proprietor of the Eastern Bank was fulminating his
financial thunders against somebody at present unnamed, Paul Somerton
stood at the dock of a London police court.

The prisoner seemed to be overwhelmed with the degradation of his
position.

The police inspector, who stood forward when the case was called from
the charge sheet, said the prisoner had only been apprehended that
morning. The evidence, however, was very short, and he thought it would
hardly be necessary for him to ask for an adjournment. The prisoner was
charged with stealing a purse containing three ten-pound notes, four
sovereigns, and scrip of the Barwood Banking Company to the value of
fifty pounds.

“Does anybody appear to watch the case for the prisoner?” asked the
magistrate.

Nobody replied, and the magistrate, putting a gold-rimmed glass to his
eye, addressed the prisoner.

“Judging from your dress and general appearance, you are respectably
connected. Have you no friends here?”

“No, sir,” said Paul. “But I am quite innocent of the charge which is
made against me.”

“Yes, prisoners mostly say so,” said the magistrate, cynically; “but
that must be inquired into.”

“It is some horrible conspiracy, sir,” said Paul with great
earnestness, his lip quivering and his face quite pale with
apprehension.

A gentleman who was sitting near the reporters rose at this juncture,
and asked to be allowed to watch the case for the prisoner. Paul
willingly embraced the offer on his part, and Mr. Arundel Williamson,
a briefless barrister and a “gentleman of the press,” stepped up to the
prisoner, and entered into a brief conversation with Paul.

“Would you like the case to be adjourned for a short time?” the
magistrate asked.

“Thank you, no, sir,” said Mr. Williamson; and the police inspector
called Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, who stated that on the previous day he
had business at the Meter Ironworks Company, Westminster. Whilst he
was in Mr. Richard Tallant’s room, he had occasion to take something
from his purse, and during conversation he laid the purse upon the
mantel-shelf. About half-an-hour afterwards, when he was leaving the
room, he remembered his purse, and found that it was gone. At first
he thought he must have put it into his pocket again, but he searched
without avail. The only person who had come into the room whilst he was
there was the prisoner.

“Will you ask Mr. Gibbs any questions, Mr. Williamson?”

“No, sir, not at present,” the barrister replied.

“Proceed with the case,” said the magistrate.

Policeman X 40 said: “Late last night he had a search-warrant placed in
his hands to execute at the house of Mr. Thomas Dibble, Still Street,
Pimlico. He went there the next morning, and asked an old woman----”

“Old woman, thir!--how dare you call me an old woman?” somebody
exclaimed in the body of the police court.

“Who is that? Bring that woman forward,” said the magistrate.

“Yeth, my lord and jury, or whatever you call yourthelveth,” said Mrs.
Dibble, elbowing herself, amidst much laughter, towards the bench.

“Silence! Silence!” exclaimed two policemen; whilst another took hold
of Mrs. Dibble’s arm to increase her momentum.

“How dare you, thir! Handth off, or I’ll have the law againtht you for
falthe imprithonment; and ith more than your plathe ith worth to----”

“Take her out--take the woman out, if she will not be quiet,” said the
magistrate.

“At your peril,” exclaimed Mrs. Dibble, amidst increasing laughter.

“Then out with her!” exclaimed the magistrate, losing his temper; and
Mrs. Dibble speedily disappeared, struggling between two policemen, and
bursting her hooks-and-eyes in the most extraordinary fashion.

“I asked the woman of the house,” went on the imperturbable policeman,
“to show me Paul Somerton’s bedroom. She took me up-stairs, and pointed
a room out to me which she said was his. I asked if the box beneath
the dressing-table was Paul Somerton’s, and she said it was. I broke
it open, and found at the bottom, beneath some clothes, the purse
now produced. I then went to the offices of the Meter Ironworks and
apprehended the prisoner.”

“Is this your purse, Mr. Gibbs?” the magistrate inquired.

“It is,” was that gentleman’s reply.

“And the contents now are the same as when you lost it?”

“They are, sir,” said Mr. Gibbs.

“Have you any questions to ask the policeman?” the magistrate inquired,
addressing Mr. Williamson.

The barrister, after a short conversation with the prisoner, said he
had not.

The police Inspector who had charge of the case asked if it would be
necessary to call Mrs. Dibble to prove the ownership of the box wherein
the purse was found.

Mr. Williamson said he thought, before the Court went any further with
the case, it was well that he should apply for an adjournment until
the next day. From the instructions of his client, who was, as the
bench had judged, most respectably connected, he had no hesitation in
saying that the case would turn out to be one of conspiracy against the
prisoner; but he was hardly in a position to deal with it at so short a
notice.

“At present there is ample evidence for committal to the sessions--a
sufficiently _primâ facie_ case for trial,” said the magistrate. “Would
it not be better to defer your defence until then?”

Mr. Williamson differed with the learned magistrate, and pressed for
adjournment.

“Without bail, of course,” said the magistrate.

“I think I shall be in a position to offer substantial bail in the
course of an hour,” said Paul’s new friend.

“I shall be here for two hours,” said the magistrate, “and will
consider your application. I do not think I should be inclined to
accept bail.”

The prisoner was then removed, and his legal and journalistic friend
went with him.

Mr. Williamson was a gentleman well-known on the London press, not only
for a certain cleverness in the epistolary style of writing, but for
his peculiar amiability. Educated for the Church, certain scruples of
conscience had induced him to give up the Establishment just when he
was expected to be ready for ordination.

Afterwards he read for the Bar, was called in due time, and took up his
quarters in the Temple. No briefs coming into his hands, he directed
his attention to the Press, secured an appointment as critic on the
_Sunday Review_, and was appointed London correspondent of _Berrow’s
Journal_, an old provincial paper of considerable repute. He joined the
Hamilton Club, where Press-men most do congregate, and by degrees came
to be regarded as one of the craft.

He was in the police court during Paul’s trouble quite by accident,
having called in, out of kindness to little Simpkins, who was the
accredited reporter of the _Daily Mercury_, and who was in a delicate
state of health.

“I knew the little fellow was ill, and as he’s only just pushing his
way on the Press, I have dropped in occasionally and relieved him. His
father was an old friend of my father’s, and I feel a good deal of
interest in him.”

This was the brief explanation of Mr. Williamson’s presence in court,
which he thought it necessary to give Paul, and then he sat down
quietly beside the prisoner, and made notes of all that Paul wished him
to know.




                            CHAPTER XVIII.

                 RETURNS TO THE MEETING AT THE LONDON
                                TAVERN.


The honourable proprietor continued to keep back his secret for some
time, in face of all opposition; several directors drew various devices
on the blotting pads before them; the reporters for the London papers
smiled, took notes, sharpened their pencils, and nibbed their pens; the
Yorkshire cleric insisted upon knowing the position of the bank, and
the stalwart layman from the same county loudly proclaimed his opinion
that it was just simply “dommed nonsense to go on like this.”

The financial orator was a gentleman of experience; he had fought
shareholders and directors before now, and he was not going to give way
to these Eastern Bank fellows: he said this in a quiet whisper to a
friendly M.P. who was standing by his side. Then turning towards the
directorial seats, he said that a certain empty chair at the board that
day did not at all surprise him.

“Name! name!” cried a few shareholders again; and then suddenly, for
the first time, the chairman looked round the room nervously, as if he
sought an absent face; and the shareholders gradually became quiet.

“The gentleman who is most conspicuous by his absence on this occasion
is the absentee to whom I refer,” said the financial orator.

Still the shareholders were at fault; some shook their heads, others
looked as if they knew all about it; and the poor parson, in a moment
of exhausted patience, again insisted upon knowing the position of the
bank.

The chairman fidgetted uneasily in his seat: sundry anonymous letters
making grave charges against his son, several questionable monetary
transactions in which he had reason to suspect he was engaged, and one
or two recent little disputes which he had had with his son, occurred
to him, and he began to fear that the disclosure of the absentee’s name
would be a very painful one to himself.

At length the financial orator, after raising his hand for silence,
said deliberately, “the gentleman to whom I refer is Mr. Richard
Tallant;” and then there went a whisper all about the room--“The
chairman’s son!” In the public mind the name of Tallant had been so
generally associated with everything that was honourable and true until
now, that it seemed as if the bank was really broken indeed. London men
looked silently and inquiringly at each other. Country shareholders,
who had never previously attended these half-yearly meetings, looked
on in amazement, and wondered what would be the next turn in the
mysterious wheel of fortune.

All this occurred in much less time than it occupies you to read what
we have written by way of narrative. Not many moments elapsed before
the chairman rose. He beckoned the speaker who had denounced his
son, and the gentleman came up and began expressing regret at being
compelled to take a course which must be so painful to the chairman.

“Nay, nay, make no apologies, sir; you have simply discharged your
duty,” said Mr. Tallant. “What proofs have you?”

The honourable proprietor handed to the chairman a bundle of papers.
Having carefully examined these through his eye-glass, and apologised
for detaining the meeting, Mr. Tallant, in a voice which fully
indicated the mental agony of the speaker, said--“Gentlemen, you will
readily understand what a blow this is to me. When I rose to order it
was not for a moment with any idea of screening my son----”

“Query,” said a wretched shareholder, who was hissed, and hustled, too,
in a moment.

“It has been my pride,” said the chairman, heedless of the
interruption, “throughout my long business career, to make the name of
Tallant one of strength in this great metropolis, and a name which
should be synonymous with wealth and with honour. My ambition was
unbounded, you may say, but surely it was a laudable ambition. I say
surely it was, more now by way of question than by way of assertion;
perhaps the standard which I set up was too high. But until to-day
I seem to have reached the acme of all my pride and hope; for never
before, I believe, has a word been even whispered against the honour,
and integrity, and soundness of a Tallant.”

Cries of “Hear, hear!” and a weak attempt at cheering, greeted the fine
old man, as he looked round the room with something like an air of
triumph in his misery.

“I have held a high place amongst you now for many years; but we have
fallen upon bad times. We are in the midst of a financial crisis which
is not only breaking banks but friendships; which is not only carrying
wreck and ruin to the weak and the false, the fool and the knave, but
which is shaking the reputations of men of probity and honour. The
suggestion of an honourable proprietor, made this day, that I should
resign, was greeted with a sufficient sound of approving voices to
determine me in my course, before this attack upon my son. It had been
my full intention to resign (cries of “No, no!” and “Yes, yes!”). I have
no other alternative.”

Here the cries of “No, no!” and “Yes, yes!” broke out afresh, and
somebody said, “How do we know he isn’t as bad as his son?”

When something like quiet was once more restored, Mr. Tallant said, “I
have been your chairman now for nearly five years. I have striven to
do my duty to this great corporation. Through misfortunes over which
the directors could have but little control, the failure of some great
houses in Bombay----”

“And your own mismanagement,” said a fierce and irrepressible
shareholder, who had five thousand pounds locked up in the concern, and
who thought this a sufficient warrant for being angry and insolent.

But Mr. Tallant did not appear to hear these galling remarks,
howsoever deeply they may have impressed him.

“And through the failure of some great houses in Bombay,” he repeated,
“our Indian branches have suffered a loss of one hundred thousand
pounds.”

Loud groans, and other expressions of anger and contempt, greeted
this announcement. In the midst of it the chairman, who had taken a
cheque-book from his pocket, sat down, and with a trembling hand filled
it up, and signed it with his well-known clear bold signature.

Raising his hand to command silence, he said, “One hundred thousand
pounds represents your losses by these failures--the only losses this
corporation have suffered during my presidency. Here is a cheque for
the amount, and I shall--never--occupy this chair again.”

Mr. Tallant deliberately handed the cheque to the secretary of the
company, who sat near him, and taking up his hat proceeded to leave the
room. The shareholders and others made way for the fine old English
gentleman as he passed, and in a few moments his firm steady footstep
could be heard on the staircase.

Some minutes elapsed before it occurred to several friends that they
ought to follow him. By the time they reached the street Mr. Tallant
was nowhere to be seen. He had called a hansom, and ordered the
driver to go to the Paddington Railway Station: and he sat there in
the waiting-room for nearly an hour. Trains came and went whilst he
sat there; people came in and out, happy mothers and children, merry
West-countrymen, and London tourists, and sorrowful-looking people also.

The sunlight was struggling through the great glass roof of the
station, and making the place look quite joyful and festive. White
wreaths of steam from noisy engines crept up to the glass, and
dispersed in a sparkling kind of mist. There was a general air of
pleasantness about the place that was cheering; but the great London
merchant sat in the waiting-room with his arms folded, and his head
upon his breast, waiting for the train.

You have stood at a railway station and seen them shunting a train of
carriages upon some weed-grown siding. It seemed as if Fate had shunted
the owner of Barton Hall--as if his day were over, as if, after going
bravely through the world for a long time, he had broken down, and had
come to be shunted upon a siding. Not shunted, like you and we hope to
be shunted some day, smoothly and quietly to rest from our labours;
but roughly, ruthlessly, thrust and bumped into a line of off-rails,
covered with the dust of the world, and ticketed “Not to be used.”

It was a bitterly hard lot for Christopher Tallant, in his prime and in
his glory, but he knuckled down to it manfully, and bent his head to
the storm.

The train came at last, and carried the merchant away to the station
nearest Barton Hall. The porters were in a state of great excitement
because there was no carriage as usual to meet Mr. Tallant; he took
no notice of their inquiries and suggestions beyond the courtesy of a
passing nod, but walked quietly to the principal hotel. Thence he sent
a messenger requesting a local lawyer to attend him at Barton Hall,
whither he departed as quickly as a hired conveyance would permit.

They had heard of the panic at this little out-of-the-way town, and
concluded at once that Mr. Tallant had received some great financial
injury in the crisis. The town was alive with rumours all the night,
and by bed-time Mr. Tallant was reported to have lost a million of
money in railways. But on the following day the true story was told by
the London papers, or by one of them at least; for the majority had
excluded the point of the denunciatory speech which ended with the name
of Richard Tallant.

The law of libel, as it affects newspaper proprietors, is peculiar with
regard to the publication of public sayings and doings. The reporter
may set down the most scurrilous and libellous speech which counsel
or solicitor may make in a court of justice, and the newspaper editor
may publish it in his columns without a shadow of legal responsibility
resting upon him; but anything said at a public meeting which in any
way affects the character or reputation of a private individual or a
public man, is published at the editor’s peril: so that several of the
London journals refrained from chronicling all that took place at the
Eastern Bank meeting. One editor, bolder than the rest, published the
meeting at length; and his paper it was which enlightened the people in
the Avonworth Valley with regard to the unusual manner and conduct of
the famous proprietor of Barton Hall.




                             CHAPTER XIX.

                 OF CERTAIN REPORTS IN THE NEWSPAPERS.


O, those hard and bitter histories, the newspapers! Hard as the metal
in which they are printed. Stern matter-of-fact histories of the great
world. They go straight to the subject; they do not prepare the reader
by any quiet preliminary caution that the man who has been found
murdered is his father; there is nothing roundabout in that long list
of deaths. You have no time to think before the awful truth is in your
mind. That railway accident,--is your dear friend unhurt?--whilst you
are wondering, there stands his name in the list of dead. That little
indiscretion of your son’s;--here it is, blazoned forth to the world
in the police reports: he was only anxious to save his friend, and his
zeal overcame his discretion; he is fined for obstructing a policeman
in the execution of his duty, and here stands the record, to be turned
against him any day.

O, hard and bitter histories! They told the story on that second
day. They told the two stories. They came to Barton Hall, wrapped up
carefully and smug as of yore. They were carried to the kitchen fire
and dried. John scanned them, and saw nothing of importance. Mary
noticed a frightful murder stuck down in one corner, almost out of
sight. Peter the groom took note of the latest betting; but none of
them saw what the people at the town found out later in the day; and
none of them saw what Phœbe Tallant and Amy Somerton saw.

Mr. Tallant had been engaged until late with his country lawyer,
and had kept his room on that second day. Phœbe was sure there was
something seriously the matter with her father; for he had pressed her
hand, and kissed her, and made the tears come into her eyes.

This was something very unusual for Mr. Tallant. Proud as he
undoubtedly was of Phœbe’s beauty, hers was a sort of negative
existence in his mind. Richard, her brother, had engrossed nearly all
his thoughts. Phœbe was like a simple flower adorning the name of
Tallant;--but Richard, he would build up the house and perpetuate the
name, and be the grand, educated successor of his father.

Once or twice, however, within the few previous months, grave doubts
as to the propriety of his son’s conduct had crossed the merchant’s
mind; but these had been to a great extent dispelled by a few words
of conversation with his son. Of course, the young fellow had been
educated at Oxford, and had thoughts, and feelings, and aspirations
altogether different to his father’s. The old man understood this to a
certain extent, but “honour, Dick; remember, that does not come with
college education, my boy,” Mr. Tallant would say; “don’t let Latin,
and Greek, and mythology, and grand acquaintances shake plain old
Saxon notions of honour and honesty, and paying your way, and owing no
man, and all those old-fashioned things which have made the name of
Tallant foremost in the city of London.”

But Richard Tallant was in the whirlpool of fast life, of speculation,
of financial scheming, of gambling; and at length he reached the
vortex, with all the good lessons and examples of his father upon his
head.

So these newspapers, as we have said, were dried, and whilst a
couple were sent up-stairs to Mr. Tallant, two were taken into the
drawing-room to Miss Tallant and her friend, Miss Somerton.

Never did papers contain so much to startle and interest two girls
before. The Eastern Bank meeting, and the exposure of Richard Tallant;
the charge of robbery against Paul Somerton; and a paragraph recording
the departure of the troop-ship _Atlas_ for India, with Captain the
Hon. Lionel Hammerton on board.

They mastered it all at last, and clung to each other in terror and
amazement. It seemed almost as if the world had suddenly come to an
end. Phœbe looked round, as if to assure herself that she was at home.
There was no mistaking this. The familiar chairs and cabinets, and
pictures and statuettes, all seemed to look reassuringly at her.

Amy took things in a more demonstrative fashion. She pressed her hand
to her head, and then broke forth into a low wail of pain.

“And I did not know that he even intended to leave the country,” said
Amy, by-and-by, all her thoughts concentrated upon Lionel Hammerton.

Phœbe, with her brother’s disgrace, her father’s misery, and Paul
Somerton’s troubles, each agitating her mind in turns, had scarcely
thought for a moment of the sudden and unexplained departure of Lionel
Hammerton. Arthur Phillips might have told her of it, but the artist
had not been near Barton Hall for more than a month. He had written a
note of apology, and explaining that his absence was necessary for the
completion of some important work upon which he was engaged.

“Not even to say good-bye,” Amy exclaimed, rocking herself to and fro.

It quite shocked Phœbe to see how Amy dwelt upon this departure of
Hammerton; to see how it overshadowed all the other bitter news. Amy
had not even uttered one expression of pity for the brother whom she
loved so well.

This secret love of Lionel Hammerton had burned itself into her very
nature. However much she might have doubted her powers to bring him
to her side, and however much she may have despaired of the return of
her love, on the ground of their great disparity of position, she had
long since been convinced that Lionel cared a little for her. She had
brooded over his acts of kindness and courtesy; she had bound up his
image in all her ways of life, and Phœbe knew how much she loved him.

His leaving without explanation, and without a word at parting, was
not only a blow to the girl’s soft and tender dreams of love returned,
but it struck at her pride, and brought her down to the abject thing at
which she had seemed to rate herself in her thoughts of the greatness
and glory of Lionel Hammerton.

There might have been something like the aping of humility in this
girl’s love; in her own estimation she had been as nothing compared
with him, to whom she had given up her secret soul; but, trodden upon
and slighted, she rose up, conscious of her own beauty, and with a
sense of her own deserts, burning with wounded pride.

“He treats me with contempt and indifference, Phœbe,” she said, casting
the newspaper upon the floor, and trampling upon it. “Let him; he
shall have scorn for scorn, contempt for contempt. Does he think that
a woman’s heart is to be trampled upon because of lowly birth? Does he
think true love and English chivalry have exclusive inheritance amongst
the titled and the wealthy? Does he think I am a poor silly country
girl, with a weak, pliable nature, that will bend and adapt itself to
whatever may turn up in a jog-trot country life? He shall see; he shall
see.”

With this Amy Somerton swept out of the room like an enraged queen, who
counted her subjects by millions.

“Poor Amy, she has read too much poetry of late, and thought it all
true,” said Phœbe, the big tears rolling down her fair cheek. “Whatever
will become of us all! I am sure my head swims with the thought of all
the dreadful things that have taken place. My poor dear father!” then
she exclaimed, and the next minute she had burst into his room, and
flung herself upon his neck.

“Dear, dear father,” she said, “do bear up; perhaps it is not true;
perhaps he has repented, and all may come right again,” said Phœbe,
smoothing the merchant’s grey hair; but she felt how hopeless was
Richard’s case notwithstanding.

Mr. Tallant submitted to his daughter’s caresses, and his mind was
suddenly carried back to the days of his second wife. In the midst of
great trouble and distress of mind the thoughts will often ramble to
times and things altogether apart from the immediate cause of your
mental anxiety. Mr. Tallant thought of the wife whom he had loved so
dearly, and then wondered that no likeness remained of her in his child.

“You are not quite ruined, perhaps, father,” said the girl, by-and-by;
“we can go and live in some quiet little place, where we shall be
unknown.”

“Ruined, my love,” said the merchant, with a faint smile, “what made
you think of that?”

“That great sum of money which you paid, father--so nobly, so like your
true self,” said the girl, with a look of admiration shining through
her tears.

“I could do that several times over, and be far from ruined then,” said
the merchant, with just a touch of pride in his manner; “it is our
name that is ruined, our name that is blemished; _his_ name--he who
was to be the pride of the land.”

“But the paper says the name of Tallant has risen higher than ever with
your magnanimous and noble revenge,” said Phœbe, timidly, for she had
never in all her life before spoken to her father of money and things
appertaining to trade and commerce.

“The papers!” repeated the merchant, bitterly. “What can they say or
do? Who cares for the papers in times like these, when the greatest
houses in the country are tottering to their very foundation. The name
of Tallant would have risen like a rock of gold in this panic, and
been impressed for all time in the history of finance, but for this
wretched, this miserable deception.”

“But your own name, father; your own honour,” said the girl.

“What do I care for myself,” said the merchant, interrupting her; “it
was for him that I worked, and saved, and hoarded. Did I grudge him?
No; he was his own master; he had the run of my own bank. But there,
there, Phœbe, say no more upon the subject. We will try to talk of
other things.”

“The Somertons, too, will be in great distress,” said Phœbe, “about
their son.”

“Why?” asked the merchant.

“Did you not read it in the paper?”

“I have read nothing in the paper,” was the reply.

“In prison, and charged with robbery,” said Phœbe, softly; “but a
counsel appeared for him and said it was a conspiracy.”

“That is easily said,” the merchant answered. “Robbery! whom has _he_
robbed?”

Phœbe shuddered at the emphasis in the latter sentence, which convinced
her that her father’s opinion of Richard was sealed and settled.

“His prosecutor is a person named Gibbs--Shuffleton Gibbs,” said Phœbe.

“The greatest scoundrel in London,” said the merchant. “Better to
have such a man against you than for you; he is the intimate and bosom
friend of your brother. Give me the paper, love, and leave me to read
it.”

Phœbe opened out the paper which lay upon the table, kissed her
father’s forehead, and went to comfort the Somertons.

She looked the very impersonation of comfort and consolation, this
gentle, confiding, Miranda-like being, as she quietly glided across the
park towards the farm. An old shepherd dog came bounding up to her, and
leaping for joy, in its half-blind, shambling fashion; a little group
of deer trotted off before her, but turned round to look, and said as
plainly as could be, “We should not have moved, had it not been for
that villainous dog;” ducks, and hens, and chickens, all came round
about her as she entered the farm enclosure; a great furry cat came
and purred beside her; and Mr. Somerton’s blackbird, which hung by the
window in a wicker cage, began to sing so merrily that you could hardly
hear the whirr and rattle of the threshing-machine, which was hard at
work in the adjacent stack-yard.

Whilst Amy Somerton was pacing to and fro in her chamber at the Hall,
Phœbe Tallant fulfilled her office at the Hall Farm, and endeavoured
in a hundred gentle, gracious ways to console the bailiff and his
wife. So far as Luke was concerned, she was not unsuccessful, but Mrs.
Somerton gave way to her feelings without the slightest regard to Amy’s
consolatory observations.

The farmer’s wife seemed to arraign all humanity as if it were in a
conspiracy against her, and she was almost rude to Miss Tallant, so
much so that Luke interposed in an authoritative manner, and Phœbe
looked hurt and concerned.

This only changed the manner of Mrs. Somerton’s complainings. She was
satisfied that Paul was guilty. He must have stolen the purse; it
didn’t often happen, she went on, that people got charged with offences
of that kind unless they deserved it. All her children went wrong;
none of them cared for her; none of them made any return to her for
all her care.

Nobody knew her trials, nobody could understand her troubles; all she
hoped was, that the time would come soon, when they would be ended for
ever.

Luke Somerton rated his wife in a quiet, manly fashion for her
injustice towards Paul, and her unkind return for the generous
attention of Miss Tallant; and by-and-by Mrs. Somerton began to cry,
and that was a sufficient apology to the rich merchant’s daughter, who
sat beside the bailiff’s wife and said all sorts of comforting things,
whilst Mr. Somerton set about packing up a carpet-bag for the purpose
of going to London; and eventually Miss Somerton presented herself, and
requested that she might be permitted to accompany her father.




                              CHAPTER XX.

                SHOWS HOW THE PURSE FOUND ITS WAY INTO
                         PAUL SOMERTON’S BOX.


In this world the victory is not always with the good and the true.
It has shaken many a man’s faith before now to see the wicked and the
selfish thrive, whilst the noble, and the generous, and the pure, were
beggars.

Suppose there were no hereafter? What would compensate us for the
unequal justice which, judged by the world’s standard, is meted out?
What would hinder the unfortunate and poverty-stricken from making
their quietus with a bare bodkin? What would reconcile the man bound to
work on, and toil on, and sweat and drudge in misery, from eating his
very life out with envy of the rich? What would prevent the wealthy
man who, willing to help his poorer brethren to the fullest extent,
finds individual help like his of comparatively little use--what
would there be left for him but to put down the unequal distribution
of riches to gross injustice? How could we reconcile it with a good
and beneficent Creator, that some are born and bred in poverty and
wretchedness, and are doomed to wear the chain of want all their lives;
whilst others inherit all the luxuries of purple and fine linen, and
chairs of state and command? What else but a future of rewards and
punishments would enable us to live and endure all this, rich and poor,
good and bad, selfish and generous?

Honesty is the best policy in the end, so far as personal happiness
is concerned. It is a selfish way of preaching honesty nevertheless;
but how often, in a worldly sense, does the axiom seem to be reversed.
On the Stock Exchange there were certain men who were dishonest. They
lied wilfully and designedly about the credit of banks and companies;
they propagated scandalous reports about certain establishments; they
sent out thousands of lying letters throughout the country, cautioning
people against concerns which they knew to be safe. Then they went into
the market and sold shares which they did not possess, and secured low
quotations in the newspapers. This frightened people who had invested
their money honourably, and they began to sell. Confidence was shaken,
and the “bears” made money. Their lies and dishonesty ruined hundreds
of honest people; but men like young Tallant and Mr. Gibbs profited by
the transactions. They bought and sold at pleasure, and in the midst of
the general panic selected what concern they liked for ruin.

It is true that by degrees the gentlemen known as “bears” created a
storm which they could not control, and that some fell by their own
thunder--some were caught in their own snares; whilst others thrived
and waxed rich, and retired on handsome fortunes, many of them made
by purchasing at a low figure shares which they had assisted to
depreciate.

Young Tallant was amongst those who made large sums of money. He
was fortunate in all he undertook; and on that very morning when he
was denounced at the great City meeting, his “bearing” speculations
represented a profit to the tune of many thousands. It was in this
wise: he was a director of the Mercantile Finance Bank. On the previous
day the shares had been run down by false reports to ten shillings a
share--scrip upon which twenty pounds had been paid. Young Tallant
bought two thousand shares at the close of the market. The next day
the _Times_ contradicted the rumours, the directors made a statement,
confidence was restored in a few hours, and the director who knew that
such would be the case, sold his two thousand at an average of more
than seven pounds a share.

Since the row at the Ashford Club he had acted more upon his own
account, and had avoided Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, who, left to his
own machinations, had been a little too clever in his stock-jobbing
operations; he had sold largely shares which had rallied, and were
likely to stand all future assaults. But he still had schemes on hand
which seemed likely to bear substantial monetary fruits. He was rich
enough, as the readers of this history will no doubt have guessed, to
encompass his revenge against Paul Somerton.

The plot had been well and skilfully managed. Thomas Dibble had led a
life of dreadful misery since his loss of the five hundred pounds, and
Mr. Gibbs had aggravated his torture with a thumb-screwish perfection
of cruelty. The shares which Thomas Dibble had bought carried a future
responsibility of fifteen hundred pounds. So that his loss, instead of
being five hundred, might really have been increased to two thousand.

Mr. Gibbs, by degrees, explained this to the wretched Dibble, who had
lain awake during long weary nights, beside the partner of his bosom,
suffering all sorts of agonies, and without daring to explain his
misery to Mrs. D., who said enough every day and night about the five
hundred pounds to have broken down more sensitive minds than Dibble’s.

“I do really think I shall go mad,” he said to Mr. Gibbs, on the day
when that gentleman had tortured him up to the last pitch necessary for
making Dibble his tool.

“Then I must save you,” said Mr. Gibbs, at length.

“Oh, Mr. Gibbs, dont ’e trifle with my feelings,” said Thomas.

“Not I, my friend; I intended to have assisted you when I advised you
to buy those shares, and I am sorry they have not turned out so well
as we had a right to expect,” said Mr. Gibbs, tapping his tight little
boots with a cane, and looking up at the lamp under which Dibble had
accosted him in the street.

“No, no--the best intentions sir; but dear, dear, bad be the best this
time.”

“Come to my chambers in an hour, Dibble, and I will see if I can put
the thing right.”

“Yes, sir,” said Dibble, touching his cap; the two parted, and in an
hour Dibble was sitting on the edge of a chair in Mr. Gibbs’ private
room.

“Business is business,” said Mr. Gibbs; “I will take the shares from
you, and here is a cheque for five hundred pounds.”

“God bless ’e, God bless ’e!” began Dibble, in an ecstasy of delight.

“Stop a little; there is a small condition,” said Mr. Gibbs, placing
his hand upon a purse which he laid upon the table.

Dibble looked at Mr. Gibbs for explanation, but quite prepared in his
own mind to buy peace at home at any sacrifice.

“You must put this purse secretly into Paul Somerton’s box, in his
bedroom.”

Dibble looked puzzled, and Gibbs fixed him with his fishy eye.

“It is a very simple thing. Take it without examination, and find
an opportunity to-night to put it carefully in the lowest corner,
underneath his clothes or papers, or whatever else he has in his box.”

“Yes, it be simple,” said Dibble, patting his forehead, and looking at
his boots; “it be very simple, that’s true.”

“Do it, and to-morrow morning give me your shares and I give you five
hundred pounds; here is one hundred on account to-night, in proof of my
sincerity.”

“Oh, that be all right, sir--I can trust to what you says; but what be
the meaning of this business about the purse?”

“I like your question--nothing like being open and straightforward with
each other. That’s my motto,” said Gibbs.

“And it be a good un, too,” said Thomas.

“Paul Somerton has done me a serious injury, and I am determined to
punish him; he is a conceited, proud young fellow, and I mean to take
him down.”

“He be proud, that’s true,” said Dibble, remembering how Paul had
dropped his companionship of late.

“I hate and detest him, he is a thief and a scoundrel; and I could have
him transported if I liked.”

“Could you now?” said Dibble, staring in amazement at Mr. Gibbs, who,
despite his efforts to appear calm, had clenched his fist, and looked
particularly ugly.

“I shall punish him by means of this purse. If you do what I require
you will have your five hundred pounds, and have no liability beyond
it; and you will be able to live comfortably and happily again with
Mrs. Dibble. And if you don’t, you will have fifteen hundred pounds
to pay beyond the five hundred; you will be sold up and turned out of
house and home, and be done up root and branch.”

Dibble groaned aloud at this picture, and jumping from his seat, said,
“Give me the purse, give it me; I’ll do it.”

“And you swear on your oath--go down on your knees--there, that will
do; now you swear that whatever may take place you will never confess
that you know anything about the purse, or ever saw it in your life
before.”

“I swear it all,” said Dibble.

“So help you, heaven!” said Gibbs, holding his hand aloft, and Dibble
repeated the imprecation.

“If you should break your oath you will not only go to the devil,” said
Gibbs, solemnly, “but you will before that be taken by the police as a
thief, and transported. Now, here are ten ten-pound notes, and here is
the purse; in the morning early I shall know if you have done your work
properly. Good-night.”

“Good-night,” said Dibble, slinking away in a perspiration of fear and
happiness, of doubt and hope; afraid of his own shadow, yet less afraid
of Mrs. Dibble than he had been a few hours before.

And this is how the purse came to be in Paul Somerton’s box; and this
is how it was that Mrs. Dibble’s joy at seeing her five hundred
pounds on the table before her was neutralised by Paul Somerton’s
apprehension, and the insulting manner of the policeman towards both
herself and her establishment.

That night of Paul’s apprehension and remand was a terrible one for
poor Dibble; for during the evening there arrived Paul’s father and
sister Amy, and he was witness of their distress and trouble. He sat
there and listened to Amy’s stories of his goodness, and he saw the
silent sorrow of his fine manly father. He heard Mrs. Dibble speak
of Paul as the best and kindest young man; and he felt that she was
speaking nothing but the truth when she said she would rather have lost
a thousand pounds than such a thing should have happened.

And by-and-by Mr. Williamson, the barrister who had spoken up for
Paul, came to the house in a cab, bringing Paul with him; which was
such a blow to Dibble that he had not the heart to join in the general
expressions of delight at the poor young fellow’s appearance. He sat
there looking on, so pale and woe-begone, that Mrs. Dibble was struck
with his appearance, and pitied him for taking the thing so much to
heart.

There was quite a scene between Amy and Paul, neither of them expecting
to see each other. Amy rushed into his arms and sobbed on his shoulder,
until Paul could hardly help crying himself; and Mrs. Dibble burst
every hook-and-eye she had left. And Dibble could stand it no longer;
so he slunk away into the back kitchen, with serious thoughts of
putting his head into the water-butt, and keeping it there until he
was dead. After five minutes’ consideration he changed his mind,
and returned to the little parlour calmer and more contented, and
sufficiently at ease to shake hands with the released prisoner, for
whom Mr. Williamson had succeeded in giving bail.




                             CHAPTER XXI.

                WHEREIN THOMAS DIBBLE “RUNS AWAY,” AND
                MEETS WITH A VERY REMARKABLE COMPANION.


Mrs. Dibble insisted upon Miss Somerton and her father remaining in her
house until the next day, when Paul was to reappear at Bow Street; and
this increase in the Dibbleonian establishment made it necessary that
Mr. Thomas Dibble should sleep on the sofa in the parlour.

“I’ll make you up a comfortable bed, Thomath,” said Mrs. D., when all
the other members of the household had retired to rest, “particularly
on account of your sympathy with that young man; for if ever there was
innocence anywhere it is in his face: though however that purse could
get into his box is a matter as I have yet to learn. It’s very well for
Mr. Williamson, that barrister gentleman--who reminds me of a young
man as made me an offer before I left boarding-school, which my parenth
were particular in sending me to on account of the position I was
expected to take in the world--and he may say it with perfect truth,
that some one has got into the house and put that purse into his box;
but how to get the police to believe it is another thing: but we shall
see in the morning.”

“They’ll believe it, Maria,” said Thomas, very solemnly, with his eyes
fixed upon his wife’s buxom figure, which would obtrude its plumpness
and its whiteness through her tight dresses, either in front or behind,
and more particularly in an evening when Mrs. Dibble unbuttoned her
dress for the purpose of being able to breathe more freely.

“They will?--it’s all very well to say they will, but if Mr. Williamson
can do no more than show the animas, as he calls it, of the persecutor
Mr. Gibbs, it strikes me--judging from the villainous manner of
those policeman, who will not allow anyone else to speak except
themselves--that Mr. Williamson will only waste his breath.”

And Mrs. Dibble went on laying sheets and blankets between a sofa and
three chairs, and tucking them down at the foot and making the two
pillows go as far as possible in height by the aid of the sofa cushions
and an old carpet-bag; whilst Dibble looked on very sadly, but calmly,
and wondered what Mrs. Dibble would think in the morning when she
entered the room and found that the extempore bed had never been used.

“Will you give me a kiss before you go to bed, Maria?” said Dibble, in
an appealing tone.

“Of course I will, Thomath; for the way as you snatched that five
hundred pounds out of the fire, as I may say, deserves ever so many
kisses, Thomath, and as done everything to make our lives happy
again, though, as I have said before, it was not the money so much as
deceiving me, Thomath; I did think I never could have forgiven that;
but there, it’s all over, Thomath, and seeing other people in trouble
makes one’s heart softer than usual: and so bless you, Thomath, bless
you.”

Whereupon Mrs. Dibble put her arms round poor Dibble’s neck and bade
him good-night.

“And good-bye!” said Dibble, when she was going up-stairs; “And
good-bye, Maria!” he repeated when he heard the door shut upon her. For
Thomas Dibble when he went out into the back kitchen and contemplated
the water-butt, determined to run away. Not only to run away, but
to leave behind him a confession of the part he had taken in the
conspiracy against Paul Somerton.

He sat down before the handful of smouldering cinders in the little
parlour grate, and thought out his plan. He had suffered much from
Mrs. Dibble about the five hundred pounds; he had purchased peace by
its return, and she had forgiven him. But how had he bought peace? If
he remained where he was, he would be sure to confess, and then what
would Maria say? what would Paul say? what would his sister say? what
did his own conscience say now? He could not endure the latter, even in
secret, and how could he bear the former?

No, he would run away. His master was at home, in grief and sorrow for
the disgrace of his son. That son had dishonoured the name of Tallant,
and Paul Somerton was on the verge of becoming an outcast. It would be
better that he, Thomas Dibble, should go forth and become a wanderer
and a beggar than that the innocent should suffer, and bring disgrace
upon a respectable family.

Then poor old Dibble thought about his oath, and fear came upon him
in a remembrance of the dreadful consequences which Mr. Gibbs had
described. Then he thought of Maria, but a bitter memory of the
wretched life he had led with her, during the monetary interregnum,
steeled him slightly against her, and he consoled himself with the
feeling that at least she had the money back again.

A hundred other things occurred to Thomas as reasons why he should run
away, and why he should not. It was dishonourable to take an oath and
take a man’s money without sticking to the bargain; but no gentleman
ought to have inveigled a poor man into such a plot. No matter which
way Thomas looked at the case, he saw himself a disgraced man; but he
thought there was far less disgrace in running away than in staying
behind, and a thousand times more disgrace in letting the affair go on
than in preventing the conspiracy from taking effect.

So Thomas decided that he would go, that he would be a wanderer, a
beggar, a tramp,--anything but a persecutor of the innocent. He would
eat Mrs. Dibble’s bread-and-butter no longer.

It occupied him nearly two hours to write out in his big, round,
straggling hand a brief account of his share in the plot to ruin Paul,
and having done this, and signed it, and laid it in the middle of the
parlour table, directed to Paul Somerton, he wrote on another sheet of
paper, “Farwell, Maria, and if for ever, may you forgiv your herring
sinner, T. Dibble.”

Then the model porter of the Meter Works thought it would be only fair
to let Mr. Gibbs know that he had confessed all. He, therefore, wrote
a very short but very large letter to “Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, Esq.,”
determining to leave London by the West End, and put the letter under
the door of Mr. Gibbs’ lodgings as he passed by.

It was on a fine, bright, starlight autumn morning that Thomas Dibble
went forth on his pilgrimage.

Turning out of his way a little he pushed the letter under Mr. Gibbs’
door, and then directed his steps towards Paddington. He preferred to
take the longest way through the streets, because he thought he would
like to tread them once more, and say good-bye, as it were, to familiar
scenes. On past Westminster he trudged, with a little bundle over
his shoulder, on past the Houses of Parliament, where he encountered
an early coffee man, and invested in an early cup of his refreshing
beverage. He would fain have had a pennyworth of pudding, but the
pudding men were all abed, and so were the vendors of chesnuts. The
police were awake, and Thomas chuckled quietly to himself, as he passed
certain active members of the force, upon the way in which they would
be sold at Bow Street next day.

He trudged on past Charing Cross and through the Haymarket, along
Regent Street and past Regent’s Circus, meeting a few roysterers,
early workmen going to half-built houses, and printers going home from
daily newspaper offices; he saw a few shambling tramps hanging about
doorways, and seeking intervals of repose on doorsteps, whence they
were ousted occasionally by policemen; he met stray cabs with early
fares, scavengers, and slouching women reeling from infamous dens in
by-streets; and he wondered when it would be daylight.

By-and-by the great city and its smiling suburbs were left behind,
and Thomas was on the white highway, with hedges right and left, and
market-gardens behind them; and then morning dawned, and he journeyed
on beside carts, and waggons, and met tramps with dusty boots and
jackets; for the autumn had been a particularly dry season, and the
roads were covered with dust.

At length the afternoon began to wane, and Dibble turned into the
fields, over a stile, and sat down beside some half-cut corn and untied
his bundle. A piece of bread and cheese dropped out, and Thomas, being
hungry, fell to with a will. Whilst he was eating, a miserable, lean,
lank-looking dog came crouching and smelling towards him. Alone in
the wide world, Thomas naturally felt some little sympathy with the
vagrant dog, and he threw it a piece of bread and then a piece of
cheese. The animal, making certain apologetic snaps at the crumbs, ate
them, and then stood upon his hind-legs and seemed to beg for more.
Dibble could not help smiling at the quaint, gaunt, spectral-looking
dog, with all its ribs showing through its tight ragged skin; and he
fed it again. Then the animal walked round Dibble, on his hind-legs,
and performed a sort of double shuffle. Dibble was highly amused with
this performance, and he laughed very heartily and patted the dog on
the head. The animal wagged his tail, turned a somersault, and stood
upon his head in such a comical fashion that poor Dibble fairly rolled
on his back with laughing, the dog leaping over him and barking in the
most extraordinary and un-doglike fashion.

Thus Thomas Dibble made friends with this singular animal, and resolved
to have it as his travelling companion if his dogship would consent.
The dog was nothing loth, and the companionship led to important
results in the history of Thomas Dibble’s adventures.




                             CHAPTER XXII.

               IN WHICH THOMAS DIBBLE CONTINUES TO “RUN
                                AWAY.”


This strange, mongrel-looking dog, which Dibble encountered amongst the
corn, was not only a source of amusement to the runaway porter, but
gave rise to a variety of speculations far beyond the usual scope of
Dibble’s imagination.

As the evening came on, and the mist began to rise upon the brooks
and rivers, and the leaves whirled about amongst the dust, however,
poor Dibble’s somewhat dull imagination took its hue from surrounding
objects, and he suddenly became very thoughtful. He looked at the dog
as it walked by his side, with its nose nearly upon the ground and its
stumpy tail sticking up behind, and a sense of fear came over him.

All at once it occurred to Dibble that the devil could assume any shape
he pleased. Supposing this dog were the devil, come to claim the price
of the broken oath which Dibble had sworn to Gibbs! Just then the dog
began to walk on his hind-legs and barked, as if to confirm Dibble’s
supposition.

The runaway porter quickened his pace immediately, and his heart sunk
within him. He was glad to see a cart coming along the road; this
re-assured him, and he began to run as fast as he could; but the dog
soon dropped on all fours again, and overtook his companion.

Dibble would have cried out to the carter for help, but just at that
moment he came to a bend in the road, and saw a roadside inn and a
little village not many yards ahead. The dog, it would seem, saw the
inn, too, and the sight was not so pleasant to him as to Dibble, for
the dog stood still, and then turned tail and crept into the hedge, and
howled. Thomas was surprised at this, and plucked up courage enough
to whistle and beckon his companion, believing that if the dog were
not the devil, it was staying behind because of Dibble’s unkindness
in running away, and feeling that if it were the devil he might get
some assistance in the village to kill him, and thus get rid of the
devil for ever; which Thomas, in his own way, thought would be a grand
achievement.

It was some little time before the dog acknowledged Dibble’s
sympathetic whistles and encouraging words to “come along;” but at
length the vagrant animal came forth, and walked sadly and solemnly at
the porter’s heels.

They went into the roadside inn together, along the passage, past the
bar window, and into the tap-room, where two or three rough-looking
fellows were drinking beer. Dibble sat down, and the dog slunk away
into a corner under a long seat with a high back, called a “settle.”
One of the men, a little fellow with a fur cap on his head, and a brown
velvet jacket on his back, evidently noticed the dog, for he smiled
and winked at another fellow, who sat opposite to him.

“There’ll be some fun jest now,” said the little man, looking at
Dibble, who called for a pint of ale.

Several other people came in at this moment, three women amongst the
rest. Most of them had bundles, and the men all wore caps and shabby
coats; the women wore shawls and showy ribbons, and spoke in a hoarse,
foggy style, and reminded Dibble of the women he remembered presiding
over nut-stalls and shooting galleries at the Gloucestershire fairs
when he was a boy.

Whilst he was drinking his beer the window at the back was darkened
with several show-houses, caravans, and ricketty canvas-covered carts,
which were coming into the yard for the night, and then Dibble knew
that he was amongst show people. He ventured to ask an old man, who sat
next to him, and who was engaged in spinning a penny in a peculiar way,
and twitching it up his sleeve, if there was a fair coming off.

“Severntown races,” said the man, continuing his occupation, and
evincing a desire not to be interrupted.

“Oh!” said Dibble, looking round, and taking stock of his new
acquaintances. Several of them, he saw, had bundles like himself, and
all of them produced something to eat. Bread and sausages, bread and
herrings, bread and cheese, bread and onions, bread and black-pudding,
bread and tripe; and bread and many other things were exhumed from
those mysterious bundles, and from deep greasy pockets. The edibles
were demolished along with beer, and gin-and-water, and porter, and
cider, and other liquors, which a thick-fisted waiter brought in,
amidst much talking and some swearing.

All this time the little man in the velvet coat kept careful watch over
Dibble and the dog; and by-and-by, when the man who had been spinning
the penny went out with a person in an overcoat and tights (who had
been standing on his head in the villages through which he passed, and
doing other funny tricks upon a square piece of carpet), the little man
went and sat beside Dibble, at whom he nodded pleasantly, and for whose
especial behoof he tapped a nose somewhat flattened by hard usage and
dirty weather.

“I forgives yer, old gal, I forgives yer,” he said, directing one eye
towards the dog’s hiding-place, and winking at Dibble with the other.

Whereupon the dog came forth, rubbed his bony sides against Dibble’s
legs, and licked the porter’s dusty boots.

“Oh, this is the gent whose bin keind to yer,--eh, Mistress Momus?”
said the man, nodding pleasantly to Dibble.

The dog gave a short bark, and rubbed herself once more against Dibble.

“Well, well, I forgives yer, Momus,” said the man again, but this time
in a softer voice, and with a coaxing kindliness which the dog seemed
to understand.

“Come, then, old gal; stand up and make him a bow,” he went on,
motioning to the dog with his hand.

Dibble’s companion stood up as it had done in the corn-field, bowed
gravely to Dibble, and raised a forepaw to its head, like charity
school-boys on an inspection day.

“You’ve not fed the dawg too much, guvner,” said the man, patting the
dog’s head, and addressing Dibble.

“I only saw un this afternoon,” said Dibble, “for the first time, and I
never see a dog so hungry and so quiet over it, nor one half so funny;
I began to be afeared he wor something evil, he acted so much like a
Christian, surely,” said Dibble.

“Why, he’s been away for this week or more--broken-hearted a’most; and
we’ve bin obliged to fall back on the basket trick.”

Thomas looked inquiringly at the little man, and wondered why showmen
were so addicted to brown velveteen and pearl buttons.

“She can do pretty nigh everythin’, can Momus; she was the wife of a
clown’s dawg called Momus, so we called her Mistress Momus. Everythin’
she can do pretty nigh, but like a brute I expected her to do somethin’
more nor everythin’; nothin’ would do but she must talk, and she
couldn’t do that of course--no dawg could--and so we quarrelled. Didn’t
we, old gal?”

The dog licked her master’s hands, and looked up into his face.

“I wanted her to say ‘Thank ’e, sir.’ Poor lass, she tried hard, but
she couldn’t.”

Mistress Momus here opened her mouth, and jerked out something very
much like “thank,” and wagged her wretched stumpy tail.

“Never mind it, old gal; don’t try agin,” said the master, patting the
dog’s head. “She couldn’t say ‘thank ’e, sir,’ and I got savage and
kicked her, and druv her out, and threw a hammer at her. Poor Momus!
She’s sulked before for a day, but allers turned up for the evening
performances; but this time she’s been out, as I was a sayin’, about
a week--reglar done up, poor old gal, and as thin as a skeleton.
Why, you’d do to go with the human skeleton from Brummagem eh, old
lass?--eh? They could get up a bit of special business for yer, eh, old
wench?”

The dog barked, as if the notion was highly entertaining, and laid her
head on the showman’s knee.

“That’s a new idea, isn’t it, Momus,” he went on; “but never mind, old
gal, you shan’t go on as a skeleton. Tip us a tumble, just to show
you’ve got the free use of yer limbs, and then you shall have yer
supper.”

Momus turned a somersault, walked on her fore-legs, danced on her
hind-legs, and then made another bow to Mr. Dibble; and that runaway
conspirator was so diverted, that he forgot Mrs. Dibble and all his old
friends, and called for another pint of beer.

The showman ordered in a dish of tripe, of which savoury meat the
landlord had procured a large supply on the day previously for his
expected customers; and Dibble, the dog, and an interesting young lady
in faded silk and curls, were to be the showman’s guests; the young
lady being his daughter Christabel, as he informed Dibble, and one of
the most rising gals of the day.

Supper was laid on a little round table near the fireplace, and an old
pewter plate was placed on the floor for Momus.

“Give her all the scraps you’ve got, Dick,” the showman said to the
waiter, “and I’ll come down ’ansum for it.”

Dick brought in a variety of pickings, and heaped them upon the dish;
Momus speedily devoured them, and then lay down beside the plate, at
her master’s request, “becos there was tripe to foller.”

The tripe came in at length, hot and steaming, and floating about in a
milky flood redolent of onions. A candle was placed in the middle of
the table, and the showman held it over the brown dish for a moment to
feast his eyes upon the contents, and then he dashed in a wooden spoon
and served out a plateful to Dibble and his daughter, a few inches to
Momus, and a large quantity for himself. They all set-to with a will,
Christabel making short work with her allowance, and helping herself to
more, with sudden rapidity. Her father cautioned her not to be greedy.
She only deigned to reply in one word, the meaning of which, under the
circumstances, seemed to be particularly significant; for her father
began to heap more tripe upon his own plate, and Dibble began to ply
his knife and fork with increased rapidity. “Walker” was the word which
the fair Christabel had used with such magic effect; but there was no
necessity for the alarm which it evidently created in her fond parent’s
breast, seeing that she could not eat the whole of that second lot, and
the showman and Dibble were not compelled to stint their appetites.

After supper, the showman lighted a short pipe, and ordered
rum-and-water for three; Christabel brought some mysterious article
of finery from her basket, and began to sew; and the three looked
particularly happy and contented.

The showman drank Dibble’s health, and then asked him what his little
game might be.

Dibble drank the showman’s health and the young lady’s, and said he did
not know what the showman meant.

“Gammon,” said the showman. “Did yer ’ear that, Momus?”

Momus did not, for she was fast asleep at her master’s feet.

“Ever been in the profession?” the showman inquired.

Dibble looked puzzled, and said “No.”

“I mean the show business,” said the man, blowing a cloud of smoke into
the candlelight.

“No, I’ve been in different employ,” said Dibble, feeling hot and
comfortable with so much eating and drinking.

“Looking for work?”

“Yes,” said Dibble.

“Would you like the show business?”

“Shouldn’t mind anything to turn an honest penny,” said Dibble.

“Well, as you’ve bin good to the dawg,” said the showman, “I’ll give
you a few weeks’ regler employment certain, though the season is
getting to an end. I’ve been and invested in a horgan. I was afraid
the dawg ’ud never come back, and I’ve added a horgan to the drum for
the sake of hextra attraction on the outside. Would yer mind takin’
the outside dooty and grindin’ the horgan? I can give you a matter o’
twelve shillin a week and most o’ your grub.”

Dibble said he was much obliged to the gentleman, and he would be
glad to try his hand at the business; he could only give it up if he
did not suit. So he was engaged on the spot, and became part of the
establishment of “The Northern Magician,” otherwise Digby Marquis,
otherwise Bill Smith, the showman’s real name.

The company consisted of himself and Christabel, who figured as “The
Mysterious Lady,” and the dog, who was known as “Madam Momus the
four-legged Wonder.” They travelled with a big cart-load of canvas,
long poles, tressles, boards, and boxes, drawn by two ancient horses
remarkable for “high points,” long necks, and drooping heads.

They rose early the next morning and went on their way over dusty
high-roads, through green shaded lanes covered with leaves, over
country bridges, and beneath railway viaducts. They went on, now
merrily down hill with cheery words from Digby the showman, and now
sadly up hill with Dibble and Digby pushing behind, and Christabel and
Momus urging the horses in front. Occasionally they rested beside green
patches of grass, and unlimbered the horses that the poor brutes might
crop the herbage. On these occasions the showman smoked his pipe, and
gave Dibble bits of philosophical advice anent his “outside dooties” in
connection with the organ and the drum.

Sometimes they travelled in company with cheap-jacks and peep-shows;
but these were generally too swift of motion for Digby’s establishment.
Once a grand photographic saloon on radiant wheels, and with a smart
young lady doing crochet work at the front door, went saucily by,
without even a smile of contempt for the magician’s poles and bundles
and boxes. But Digby had a merry word for everybody, and Momus stood
upon her hind-legs and made derisive bows now and then when the
vehicles were particularly fast and showy.

At night, when the moon had risen, they arrived at the Severntown
race-course, and Dibble sat down to rest, and wonder what Mrs. Dibble,
Mr. Gibbs, and sundry other persons, thought about his running away.




                            CHAPTER XXIII.

                 IS OF A MISCELLANEOUS AND DISCURSIVE
              CHARACTER, BUT ESSENTIAL TO THE NARRATIVE.


“The early bird for the worm,” saith the proverb, which the
healthy-wealthy-and-wise preachers quote with such stirring effect in
the society of young people.

Supposing you are a bird, with an inordinate appetite for worms, it is
good to rise early, no doubt; but if you are a worm it is better that
you should not rise at the time when the early birds are congregated
for breakfast.

Eight or nine o’clock is quite soon enough to begin the day if you have
to begin it in misery; and if you have happiness before you all day
long, you cannot get up too early to enjoy it.

Now Mrs. Dibble had a hard day before her, and not a particularly happy
one, and she rose early at the call of duty; but she might just as well
have had another hour’s peaceful rest, for she was doomed to begin a
day of more than ordinary trial.

Shuffleton Gibbs also rose earlier than usual on this eventful day,
and it was well, for his own comfort, that he did do so, as a certain
bird of very “taking” habits only found out his place of residence at
a later hour of the morning, and would have demolished him had he not
sneaked away from his customary locality an hour or so earlier.

So you see, whether we are birds or worms, we cannot count our chances
of success or safety by our early rising. A certain worm may rise too
early for the particular bird which is waiting for him, or he may
lie abed just long enough to be snapped up by a late and luxurious
cormorant; so, though the early bird may pick up the early worm, yet
the lazy bird may also encounter the worm that is late.

The meaning of this is that proverbs are not necessarily the most
truthful and useful things in the world, though Mrs. Dibble discovered
some truth in the axiom, that “it can’t rain but it pours.”

A series of short, sharp screams were the earliest indications of
something wrong in the Dibbleonian household on this morning of the
“gude man’s” departure.

Mrs. Dibble got up, as we have intimated, rather earlier than usual,
for the purpose of preparing breakfast with her own hands, scorning to
trust certain little delicacies of bacon and kidneys to her diminutive
servant.

The sight of her extempore bed undisturbed and with no Thomas in it
gave her a dreadful turn, as she explained afterwards, and that writing
on the table with his confession in it might have knocked her down with
a feather. So she screamed aloud, and as soon as she heard footsteps on
the stairs she composed her morning gown into becoming folds, and posed
herself for a comfortable faint upon the previously unpressed bed.

Mr. Somerton was the first to put in an appearance, then came Paul,
and in a few minutes his sister Amy, all more or less frightened by
Mrs. Dibble’s screams. Mr. Somerton took the paper from her hands,
read aloud the big open letters, and expressed his satisfaction in
unmistakable language.

Amy threw her arms round Paul’s neck, and at the same moment her father
threw a jug of cold water into Mrs. Dibble’s face, which roused that
lady up in a fit of passion and indignation.

“Mithter Thomerton, thir, I wonder you are not ashamed of yourself, to
treat a lady in that outdacious way, throwing a bucket of water over
her as if she were a doorstep or some other inanimate thing, or one of
your own cattle; but it’s the way of the world,--oh, yes, nothing but
ingratitude and all that’s bad!”

Mrs. Dibble shook her dress, and wiped her face with a towel, and
shook her head, and stormed and stamped her feet, and gave other
indications of perfect convalescence, and finally sank down again
exhausted; but she sprang to her feet in an attitude of defence when
Mr. Somerton seized the water-jug for the second time.

By-and-by the position of affairs was gravely discussed, and Mrs.
Dibble talked of a hundred schemes of restoring Thomas to his home.
She would send the police after him; she would advertise for him in
the _Times_; she would follow him on foot through the wide wide world.
Then in a moment of indignation she insisted upon his never returning
to the roof which he had dishonoured, and the harmonies of which would
never go up to heaven any more on Sunday evenings as tokens of peace
and honour. The old termagant grew quite eloquent in her distress
and passion, and all the time expressed her conviction that Paul was
innocent as the lamb led to the slaughter.

The only thing which at all mollified her was Amy’s suggestion that
perhaps poor Dibble had been tempted to do wrong because he loved
his wife so dearly; though Mrs. Dibble insisted that it was not love
she valued so highly as honour and virtue and prudence, however much
she had certainly been attached to Thomas in the early days of their
courtship.

Things were assuming, it will be seen, rather a ridiculous aspect when
Mr. Williamson arrived, with his grave, amiable face, to put affairs
upon a proper footing. He mastered Dibble’s confession immediately, and
rubbed his hands over it and smiled.

“Yes, yes,” he said, “we must change places to-day, Paul; we must put
you in the witness-box, and Gibbs in the dock: that will be a good
joke, eh? It’s really a capital case--as nice a bit of conspiracy as
could well be imagined. I thought yours was an honest face, young man,”
he continued, addressing Paul, “as soon as you appeared.”

Paul blushed, and said, “Thank you, Mr. Williamson.”

The journalist and barrister then made a quiet effort to learn from
Paul his reasons for taking such an interest in the doings of Mr. Gibbs
at the Ashford Club.

Paul hesitated and looked at his sister, who immediately came to his
assistance.

“I induced Paul to make inquiries,” she said.

Her father and the rest looking for some further observation, she said,

“Paul heard some strange things, concerning Mr. Tallant’s son, and--and
Mr. Hammerton, who resided near us. I was anxious, if possible,
to learn the truth of the rumours, which were to their discredit.
In truth, it seemed as though the good name and reputation of Mr.
Hammerton were likely to be lost to him, as if he were being gradually
led into the society of disreputable people and deceived, and----”

Amy was very much at fault in her attempted explanation; she felt that
she hardly knew why she had interfered, now that she endeavoured to
justify it. Curiosity, excited by Paul’s letters, had been her first
impulse, and then her romantic love for Hammerton had shown her the
danger into which he was drifting. Her hero a gambler, the man whom she
held up in her imagination as the best and the truest and purest and
noblest, an associate of gamblers and speculators and drunkards; the
idea had tortured her to an extent quite sufficient to add eloquent
point to her inquiries concerning Hammerton and Tallant, which had
at first puzzled Paul, and then enlisted him in her service as Mr.
Hammerton’s good angel.

Could she explain this, with the eyes of her father and Mr. Williamson
upon her? She succeeded in leaving on the mind of the latter gentlemen
the impression that she had had a mind to pry into the private doings
of these gentlemen from idle girlish curiosity, and that Paul had
been very foolish in giving way to her; but Mr. Somerton saw a little
further than this into the secret of his daughter.

“Well, we must not stay chatting here,” said Mr. Williamson at
length; “I will go and apply for a warrant against this Mr. Gibbs
for conspiracy; and with regard to your husband, Mrs. Dibble, you had
better take no steps at present to discover him.”

Mrs. Dibble, who had been mechanically lighting the fire and boiling
the kettle all this time, turned round and requested Mr. Williamson to
attend to his own business, and promised the whole company that she
would attend to hers.

Upon this Mr. Williamson declined the lady’s invitation to breakfast,
and went away in company with Paul, whom Mr. Somerton and his daughter
promised to meet at Bow Street at twelve o’clock, when Paul’s bail
expired.

A warrant for conspiracy was granted against Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs; but
nearly an hour before a detective from Scotland Yard tapped at Mr.
Gibbs’ door to execute the warrant, his landlady had slipped inside
her lodger’s bedroom the rough-looking note of Dibble’s. It happened
that Mr. Gibbs rose a little earlier that morning, or he would not
have received the warning in time to have taken measures for his own
safety. As it was, he no sooner received the letter than he commenced
to prepare for flight.

In the midst of a volley of “curses not loud but deep,” he deposited
a few articles of linen and other things in a valise, into which he
emptied the contents of a small cash-box. Then from a drawer beneath
the bedstead he brought forth a grey wig, a long strait coat, and a
pair of green spectacles.

“Somehow I thought I should come to this at last,” he said, tossing the
things upon the bed and locking the bedroom door. “The luck’s against
me.”

And then he swore bitterly, and savagely ground his teeth, and coughed,
and vowed the direst vengeance against everybody.

Taking up a pair of scissors, he cut off his whiskers and moustaches,
and wrapped them up in paper.

“I must burn them somehow,” he said to himself. “What an ass I must
be to get myself into this mess to satisfy my revenge on a boy,--a
twopenny-halfpenny clerk whom I ought to have thrashed within an inch
of his life.”

He went on muttering to himself as he shaved his face clean and bare.
He certainly was not improved by the operation. The bad lines about his
mouth came out in painful distinctness, now that the hair was gone.

Fastening a white band about his neck, Mr. Gibbs next adjusted the grey
wig upon the partially bald head, put on the green spectacles, donned
the long strait coat, opened his bedroom door, listened attentively for
a moment, and then quietly disappeared down-stairs and out at the front.

He had an hour’s start of the police, and he maintained his advantage
cleverly.

No prosecutor appeared at Bow Street against Paul, and the purse was
impounded,--“rather a sell for Mr. Gibbs that,” as Williamson said in
his quiet amiable way afterwards. The magistrate said Paul left that
court an injured young man, without a blemish on his character.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the evening Amy and her father returned home, and they would fain
have had Paul’s company; but Mr. Williamson begged that they would let
Paul spend the evening with him, as he thought he could introduce the
lad to a better situation than the one at Westminster.

Amy looked the gratitude which she felt for Mr. Williamson’s great
kindness, and Mr. Somerton delicately pressed a ten-pound note upon him
just “to buy something, you know, in remembrance of the affair--not in
the way of payment for a moment, but to buy a ring or something as a
token of a father’s gratitude for protecting his son when no friends
were near.”

Mr. Williamson could not resist the fine fellow, as he said at the Club
afterwards, “there was something so noble in the way in which it was
done. A true son of the soil that Somerton--a fine noble fellow with
his heart in his eyes, and then his splendid daughter standing by and
looking so appealingly, by Jove, I took the note, and the young fellow
and I went together into Regent Street and spent it.”

This Club of which we speak was the Cavendish,--a Club frequented by
artists, actors, writers for magazines, and newspaper critics,--and
in the evening, Mr. Williamson, one of its most lovable members,
introduced his _protégé_ Paul.

It represented quite a new world to the bailiff’s son,--and a world
which was highly attractive. A new drama had been produced on this
evening, and soon after eleven o’clock quite a small crowd of fellows
came in to eat chops, drink grog, and discuss the new play. Some of
them shook hands with Williamson, called him “dear boy,” and asked
what new bit of philanthropy he had in hand. He introduced Paul to one
gentleman as his _amicus curiæ_, his _camarade_, his _fidus Achates_,
and said he wished to recommend Paul to him for a clerkship in his
office.

“I know you have a vacancy, because I inquired yesterday. Read the
papers to-morrow about a case at Bow Street--the one in which I was
engaged,--they were talking about it here, you know, last night,--don’t
ask any questions, but wait until I call upon you to-morrow.”

“All right, old fellow,” said the gentleman; and when he had joined
a companion at the furthest end of the room, Mr. Williamson said,
“That gentleman is the proprietor of _The Pyrotechnic_, a musical,
theatrical, and literary paper of which, _entre nous_, I am the editor.”

Paul during the whole night acted upon the nursery proverb--listened
and said nothing. He heard all sorts of wonderful things about
dramatic art and literary criticism, and Mr. Williamson pointed out
to him the most notable personages present. One of the quietest and
“meekest-minded” fellows there was the leading low comedian of a
famous theatre; and the noisiest and funniest dog of the lot was the
gentleman who played high tragic characters at the same house. The most
“disputatious person” was a musician who talked of German operas and
the unities of the classic drama. A gentleman who was renowned as a wit
spoke of the gorgeous poetic beauty of the Psalms; and a preacher who
contributed leading articles to a popular religious paper got a little
applause and some quiet expressions of irony by designating himself “a
professor of Hebrew mythology.”

Paul did not quite understand this latter bit of smart profanity at
the time; but he learnt eventually to estimate it at its true value,
and understand how much of the practical unbelief of the day arises
from the want of downright earnestness on the part of many professed
religious teachers. Mr. Williamson often talked about questions of this
character with Paul in after days at his quiet chambers in the Temple,
and Paul found at the bottom of Williamson’s philanthropy a fine vein
of religious feeling. And yet Mr. Williamson was a disappointed man.
The world had not gone well with him, he used to say. He commenced life
with grand theories and sentiments, and with convictions too strong,
and a heart too susceptible of honour and truth and honesty, to let
him register vows which he did not feel that he could perform to the
letter. Otherwise he might have been a shining light perchance in the
Church: at all events he would have been true to her, not like that
miserable fellow who talked about Hebrew mythology, and chuckled over
his own infamy. Mr. Williamson had avoided this religious writer ever
afterwards; not, as he said, for being an unbeliever, not because he
was an atheist, but because he belonged to the holiest and best of
all professions and made a boast of his perjury and unfaithfulness.
Mr. Williamson gave the greatest latitude to free-thinking, and never
interfered in religious controversies, and he instilled into Paul’s
mind opinions of liberality and toleration.

It was strange that Williamson should have taken such a fancy to
Paul Somerton; but he was an eccentric, amiable, kindly fellow, and
his ways and mode of life, his likes and dislikes, his selection of
companions, and his general motives of action were not influenced by
common impulses: he had habits of thought and ways of his own, and he
took it into his head that he would help this young fellow whom Fortune
had thrown in his way.




                             CHAPTER XXIV.

                   CHRISTABEL TAKES DIBBLE INTO HER
                              CONFIDENCE.


Though Thomas Dibble never, during all his connection with “The Temple
of Magic,” had seen a performance from beginning to end, he had seen
enough to surprise and delight him, and whenever an opportunity
offered, he communicated to Christabel the feelings of wonder with
which he regarded her.

“You be certainly the cleverest lady as ever I see,” said Thomas, one
night after business, as the pair sat alone over supper, in a corner of
the general room of the lodging-house where the magician’s company were
quartered. The renowned Digby had gone out to a lamb’s fry supper given
in honour of the birth-day of the Yorkshire giant, whose acquaintance
he had recently made.

“Do you think so?” said the amiable young lady, looking all kinds of
sweet things at Dibble. “Ah, I might have been, if poor old Carkey had
lived.”

“It would hardly be possible for you to be any cleverer,” said Dibble.
“However you does change them cards so wonderful, is a mystery to me.”

“Ah, that’s easy enough, Thomas; I mean clever at reading and writing,
and all that. You didn’t know Carkey, of course. He was father’s clown.
Ah, these were the days! We once had a circus company, Thomas; a real
grand affair, with horses, and ladies in spangles and tights, and
father used to stand in the middle in jackboots and crack a whip.”

“You don’t say so!” said Dibble, who felt highly honoured at the
condescension of the young lady in telling him all this.

“O, yes; it was stunning, I can tell you. I was a very little girl at
the time--very little; I can only just remember it; but Carkey, the
clown, when father was done up, and had to turn to conjuring, he stuck
to us for long enough, and it was he who used to tell me all about it.”

“I never see a clown but once,” said Dibble, “and that was when me
and----”

“Yes,” said Christabel, “you and----”

“Well, I was going to say,” Dibble stammered.

“You and----” repeated Christabel. “Now, you are keeping something from
me: if it’s a secret, tell it me, and I’ll tell you another--such a
first-rater.”

“You will?” exclaimed Dibble.

“Yes,” said Christabel, nodding her head, and laughing quite gleefully.

“And you’ll never tell, on your blessed oath?” said Dibble. “But what’s
the good of oaths? I’d rather trust to your honour.”

“Then you may,” said Christabel; “for I’m longing to tell you a
secret,--one that I’ve kept for, O, ever so long! Now, who was it when
you and----”

“Well, then, I wor going to say, when me and Mrs. Dibble--which be my
wife,” said Thomas, “once went to a pantomime, and see the clown eat
three yards of sausages, and jump through a clock.”

“So you’ve a wife?” said Christabel, disregarding altogether the
wonderful feat of the clown in the pantomime.

“Yes; and I’ve bin and run away from her,” said Dibble; “so there’s my
secret, and I trusts to your honour.”

“What did you run away for?” asked Christabel.

“Well, ’cos I’d bin and got into trouble in the panic,” said Dibble.

“What’s a panic?” asked Christabel. “I never heard of a panic.”

“Why, you see, it’s a sort of row in the City about what shares be
worth, and which buys ’em, and who sells ’em, and whether you’ve got
’em, or the other one; but the great thing of all is to know what a
bull is, and which is the bear, and whether, you ought to be one or the
’tother, and whether it’s premium or par, or what the discount be.”

This was one of the longest explanatory speeches that Dibble had ever
made, except when he was trying to convince Mrs. Dibble that he was
a bull, and could not help it. He looked at Christabel, and fancied
that he had given a particularly lucid description of a panic; but the
mysterious lady stared in astonishment at Dibble, and said--

“So that’s a panic, is it?”

“Yes it be, summat near it,” said Dibble. “I ought to know, considerin’
as I lost five hundred pounds in it.”

Dibble raised his head, and looked quite important when he thought of
his financial experience.

“Well I never heard of a panic before,” said Christabel. “I begun to
think you must be going off your head--‘off your nut,’ as father calls
it--when you talked of bears and bulls, or else that a panic was a
menagerie, and you really had been in the profession before.”

“No, a panic bain’t a menagerie,” said Dibble; “it’s worse nor anything
of that sort; it’s something as you can’t see, but it’s got a way of
getting at your money, and swallering of it up in the most outdacious
style, and the more it gets, the more you has to give it.”

“Why, it must be a menagerie,” said Christabel.

“What be a menagerie,--wild beasts?”

“Of course, you know that,” said Christabel, a little impatiently.

“Well, it’s worse than the awfullest wild beasts as ever you heard
on; but you can’t see it. I thought you could myself, and I went into
the City and inquired. ‘Where be the panic?’ I says to a porter as I
knowed. ‘In there,’ says he, ‘in the Stock Exchange.’ I looked into a
place, through a hole, and there I sees above a hundred men, a talking,
and shouting, and writing in little books, and going on like Bedlam;
but I never see the panic. So I asks a man as was standing close by,
and he begun to laugh and told me to inquire of a fat party again the
door, and he said I was to ask the Old Woman of Threadneedle-street. I
went there, and I see an old ’oman, a selling oranges, which I asked at
once. She said she thought that was it, pointing to a great big house;
but I never see it, and I ’eard arter, as it was not to be seen, that
it was like the devil going about in the character of a roaring lion on
the quiet, never letting anybody see ’un.”

Dibble was becoming quite garrulous upon the panic, and Christabel sat
looking at him with a startled sort of curiosity; she had never heard
of such a wonderful animal before; but then, she said, there were no
doubt many things of which she was ignorant.

“If Carkey had lived,” she went on, “I should have known all about
everything, because he said he would teach me, and some day he said I
might become a fine lady. Just fancy, wouldn’t that be fizzing, to be a
fine lady! If I was to tell your secret, you’d be in an awful way, eh?
It would be a reglar do, wouldn’t it?”

“Hawful,” said Dibble.

“That’s right, ’cause I want to tell you mine. Now, look here.”

Christabel looked cautiously round, to see if the miscellaneous company
were occupied. Convinced that nobody was watching them, she took from
her bosom a small miniature.

“Now, you see that?” she said, in a whisper.

“Yes,” said Dibble, fully expecting to see it changed into a pigeon or
something more wonderful still, in the way of conjuring.

“That is the picture of a lady. Carkey gave it to me, and he told me
never to part with it for love or money. It is a picture of a real
lady, such a beauty, and he says,--you swear you will never split?”

“Never,” said Dibble, solemnly.

“Well, that this lady was my mother, and that my father was a
gentleman; that Digby Martin is not my father at all, and that some day
I would perhaps find out my real father. I promised on his death-bed
always to call Digby father, and never to let anything make me not do
so, and that I was to try and learn things out of books, and read
newspapers, and all that. Now, I’ve always wanted somebody to talk to
since poor Carkey died, and to ask their opinion about it; and now you
and I shall be friends for ever,--eh, Thomas?”

“Oh, yes, sure,” said Dibble. “I wouldn’t tell your secret for all the
world. What a wonderful girl you be, surely!”

“Ain’t I?” said Christabel, quite proudly. “I often thinks of it when
I’m going through the performance, and especially lately. I read in
bed, and sometimes of a morning; and I know it’s true what Carkey said,
because there’s a tale just like it in the paper which I buy every
Saturday morning, as sure as the day comes round; and O, it makes my
blood boil! O, it’s such a fizzing story, and there’s pictures of her
in it! She was stolen by gipsies, and they made her sell buy-a-brooms
and matches; and she was a lord’s daughter all the time! And who knows,
Thomas, but that I am the same? Haven’t I got a picture in my bosom,
and all that? O, wouldn’t I go it if I ever came to be rich! And I mean
to be, Dibble; I’m not a-going to be always performing here, don’t
think it!”

Dibble said Miss Christabel ought to be in London, at the British
Museum, or somewhere.

When she knew a little more of things in general, Christabel said she
meant to try her fortune. There were lots of marriages in the tale she
was reading, and always a lot in the newspapers. Why shouldn’t she be
married?

“Why, you be too young for that,” said Dibble. “I know a young
gentleman as would make such a sweetheart for you,” said Dibble; “such
a sweetheart!”

“Yes,” said Christabel, smiling her sweetest, and putting her hair to
rights.

“But there, he be miles and miles away from here,” said Dibble; “and
you’re never likely to see him, Ise afeared.”

“What is he like?” said Christabel, preparing for a flirtation in fancy.

“O, a handsome, nice young gentleman; and his name’s Paul.”

“What a jolly, stunning name!” said Christabel.

“He wouldn’t like you to speak like that,” said Dibble.

“How do you mean?” asked Christabel.

“Why stunning and all that--it bain’t perlite; he talks so fine
himself, he do.”

“I know what you mean,” said the young lady. “I can talk fine, too. I
know stunning isn’t fine; but I know what is, so there!”

“You bain’t angry now?” said Dibble.

“Not at all--oh, no,” said Christabel. “What’s his other name?”

“Somerton,” said Dibble. “Master Paul Somerton.”

“Oh! and do you think he would fall in love with me?”

“I should think he would,” said Dibble, astonished that there should
be any opening for doubt upon the subject.

“Oh, how nice! I often think some grand young gentleman will come into
the Temple and fall in love with me; but I never see a real handsome
one come in, dressed pretty, you know, and with a little moustache,
like the pictures in the tale that I was telling you of. I always looks
round the audience to see if there is aireyone as is in love with me;
aireyone as I could love, you know. But they are all such a gawky lot.
Most of them are in love with me--I know that, of course; but they
are hardly worth being made miserable. O, I gives them such looks
sometimes!”

Christabel seemed to hug herself upon her assumed capacity to make
some of the male portion of her audiences unhappily in love with her,
and Dibble felt morally certain that it would be impossible for any
young gentleman not to fall in love with her; but as for marriage it
was nonsense, Dibble told her, to think of that,--such a very young
lady as she was; he should think for his part that she ought to be able
to conjure some handsome young gentleman into that basket when she
disappeared at the touch of her father’s wand--disappeared nobody knew
where. But the young lady only laughed at this, and thought it a good
joke.

What if she could conjure into it that handsome Paul Somerton, she
said, who talked so fine!

Dibble said that would be splendid, and then Christabel as a further
proof of her favour, gave Thomas her royal permission to call her
“Chrissy.” Carkey, the clown, had always called her “Chrissy,” and in
future Dibble should take the clown’s place, and be her confidant.

“But mind,” she said, clenching her little hand, “if you dare to betray
me--if you do not keep my secret,--I will not only tell yours, but oh,
I don’t know what I will not do besides--shoot you, perhaps, with a
pistol, like the lord’s daughter in the tale.”

Christabel said this so fiercely that Dibble almost wished she had not
confided her secret to him. Just as he was about to make a remark to
this effect, there staggered into the room, reeling through the smoke,
the showman and his “dawg.” The company hammered their glasses on the
tables and shouted “bravo,” as Digby strutted in with the Yorkshire
giant and Momus, the giant smiling benignly upon his tipsy friend, and
Momus marching in front with her head very erect, and her nose turned
towards her proprietor.

Thomas Dibble had hardly raised his eyes to look at his new master and
the giant, when Digby seized a cup and threw it at Momus, and, missing
his mark, made stupid efforts to kick the animal, whereupon Christabel
rushed to the dog’s rescue and called the showman a brute, at which
there was another burst of applause. The giant hereupon lifted Digby
up by his collar out of harm’s way, as if in terrible affright at
Christabel; at this Digby kicked and swore, and the giant, dropping
him, said the young lady was right, Digby Martin was indeed a brute;
and it was generally agreed that this was the most courageous thing
that a giant had ever been known to do and say. This led to a dispute
between a very tall gentleman in the peep-show line, and the proprietor
of a boxing booth, which ended in an extempore fight on the spot; in
the midst of which Christabel retired in disgust, quietly intimating to
Dibble that she would not put up with “this sort of thing” much longer.
Dibble slunk away too, and wished there had never been such a thing as
a panic in the City.


                            END OF VOL. I.


           BRADBURY, EVANS, AND CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


Italics are indicated as _italics_.

Apparent typographical errors have been changed.

Inconsistent word hyphenation and spelling have been regularized.

Page 46: “o’clo k” changed to “o’clock”.

Page 71: “fear o rivalry” changed to “fear of rivalry”.

Page 107: “TÊTE-À-T TE” in title changed to “TÊTE-À-TÊTE”.

Page 128: “The oolish neighbours” changed to “The foolish neighbours”.

Page 142: “walk through” changed to “walked through”.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TALLANTS OF BARTON, VOL 1
(OF 3) ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
